Annal Ambedkar Business Champions Scheme OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Tamil NaduAnnal Ambedkar Business Champions SchemeAABCSAmbedkarEntrepreneurLoanMSMEScheduled CasteScheduled TribeSubsidyDetailsThe scheme Annal Ambedkar Business Champions Scheme (AABCS) was launched by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of Tamil Nadu. The Government of Tamil Nadu noted that the share of persons from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities who avail of various entrepreneurship promotion subsidies from the Government is very low. In order to promote the economic development of SC/ST entrepreneurs, this scheme has been launched by the Government of Tamil Nadu. The new scheme will provide a 35% capital subsidy and offer a 6% interest subvention for loans to procure machinery and equipment. This scheme shall be implemented by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department through the Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries & Commerce (ICDIC). The Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce shall be assisted by FaMeTN, Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute, and StartupTN with manpower and other resources for implementing the Scheme. A State Level Steering Committee for the scheme shall be constituted with the Secretaries of Finance, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Departments, Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce, Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare and Commissioner of Tribal Welfare. This Committee will review the scheme once a quarter and suggest necessary modifications, if necessary.BenefitsUnder the scheme, the State Government will provide a 35% capital subsidy on the Eligible Project Cost, not exceeding 1.5 Crore.A 6% interest subvention will be given for loans sanctioned under this scheme.Note 01: Interest subvention will be given to loans sanctioned by scheduled Commercial Banks, Co-Operatives Banks, Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation, and Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) during the tenure of the loan not exceeding 10 years.Note 02: The capital subsidy sanctioned will be provided frontend to the extent necessary to constitute margin money requirement for credit linkage.Note 03: The working capital sanctioned for the project shall be eligible for interest subvention for a period not exceeding 2 years.EligibilityThe applicant should be a resident of the State of Tamil Nadu.The beneficiaries shall be persons belonging to SC/ST communities. Enterprises supported under the scheme shall be 100% owned by persons belonging to SC/STs. The enterprises may have any legal personality allowed to conduct business for profit as per prevailing laws which include sole proprietorship, partnership, and company.The scheme can support both new enterprises and expansion of existing enterprises.The eligible enterprises can be business enterprises in the areas of manufacturing and services. Trading-related projects which are above the threshold of assistance under the existing Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) scheme will also be covered.The age limit for beneficiaries will be 55 years.There shall be no minimum educational qualification for beneficiaries.There will be no bar on the beneficiary to claim additional capital subsidy from schemes operated by agencies not controlled by the Government of Tamil Nadu. This will include the Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme (CLCSS) of the Union Government, schemes of Coir Board, etc.,Entrepreneurship Development Training will be given to all beneficiaries by Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute, as done in the case of the New Entrepreneur-cum- Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS).Note 01: The scheme will cover new entrepreneurs and existing entrepreneurs.Note 02: Eligible Project Cost shall include all investments of a capital nature and will include land, plant, machinery, testing equipment, and computing devices, Cost of land may be taken into account for the purposes of calculating subsidy which should not exceed 20% of the total project cost. Vehicles shall be considered as part of project cost only in cases where the vehicle is integral to the business process as in the case of taxi and lorry business, earth moving equipment, bore well drilling, sanitary service equipment like Jet Roding machines, etc.,Note 03: This training will be given even for prospective applicants or their wards where subsidy applications are under process. Convergence with existing training schemes of the Government, including the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) will also be implemented for this purpose.Application ProcessOnlineStep 01: The applicant willing to avail loan under the AABCS scheme should fill up the online application through the Official Website of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Step 02: On the home page, click on Apply Online and then New Application . Step 03: Click on Register and fill in the details like Name, Date of Birth, Email ID, Aadhaar Number & Mobile Number.Step 04: After successful registration, click on login and fill in all the mandatory details.Step 05: Upload all the necessary documents and submit the application form. Dos and Don ts While Filing Online Application Documents Required1. Identity proof i.e. copy of Election ID Card/ Aadhaar card2. Copy of PAN Card3. Passport size photo4. Proof of age5. Caste/Community Certificate6. Residence proof7. Bank account details8. Any other documents, if requiredFrequently Asked QuestionsWho are the beneficiaries?The beneficiaries shall be persons belonging to SC/ST communities. Enterprises supported under the scheme shall be 100% owned by persons belonging to SC/STs. The enterprises may have any legal personality allowed to conduct business for profit as per prevailing laws which include sole proprietorship, partnership, and company.What is the age limit to apply under the scheme?The age limit for beneficiaries will be 55 years.Anyone residing outside Tamil Nadu State can start business in Tamil Nadu under the scheme?No, the applicant should be a resident of Tamil Nadu State.Is there any income ceiling to get assistance under the scheme?No, there is no family income ceiling prescribed for assistance in setting up projects under this scheme.What does project cost include?The project costs include land, plant, machinery, testing equipment, and computing devices with the cost of land not exceeding 20% of the project cost. Vehicles shall be considered if it is integral to the business process.How much maximum subsidy is available under this scheme?Under the scheme, the State Government will provide a 35% capital subsidy on the Eligible Project Cost, not exceeding 1.5 Crore.What should be the minimum qualification required to avail of the benefits of the scheme?There shall be no minimum educational qualification for beneficiaries.Is this scheme only for the new enterprises?No, the scheme can support both new enterprises and the expansion of existing enterprises.What type of businesses are covered under the scheme?The eligible enterprises can be business enterprises in the areas of manufacturing and services. Trading-related projects which are above the threshold of assistance under the existing Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) scheme will also be covered.Will the Entrepreneurship Development Training be given to all beneficiaries?Yes, Entrepreneurship Development Training will be given to all beneficiaries by Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute,At what rate will interest subvention be given for loans sanctioned under this scheme?A 6% interest subvention will be given for loans sanctioned under this scheme.For how many years interest subvention shall be sanctioned for working capital of the project?The working capital sanctioned for the project shall be eligible for interest subvention for a period not exceeding 2 years.Who are the members of State Level Steering Committee?A State Level Steering Committee for the scheme shall be constituted with the Secretaries of Finance, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Departments, Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce, Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare and Commissioner of Tribal Welfare. This Committee will review the scheme once a quarter and suggest necessary modifications, if necessary.Is there any bar on beneficiaries to claim additional capital subsidy?No bar on beneficiaries to claim additional capital subsidy from schemes operated by agencies not controlled by Govt. of Tamil NaduHow can a beneficiary apply under the scheme?The applicant willing to avail loan under the AABCS scheme should fill up the online application through the Official Website of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. https://msmeonline.tn.gov.in/aabcs/index.phpSources And ReferencesOfficial WebsiteGuidelineOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Tamil NaduAnnal Ambedkar Business Champions SchemeAABCSAmbedkarEntrepreneurLoanMSMEScheduled CasteScheduled TribeSubsidyDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe scheme Annal Ambedkar Business Champions Scheme (AABCS) was launched by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of Tamil Nadu. The Government of Tamil Nadu noted that the share of persons from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities who avail of various entrepreneurship promotion subsidies from the Government is very low. In order to promote the economic development of SC/ST entrepreneurs, this scheme has been launched by the Government of Tamil Nadu. The new scheme will provide a 35% capital subsidy and offer a 6% interest subvention for loans to procure machinery and equipment. This scheme shall be implemented by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department through the Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries & Commerce (ICDIC). The Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce shall be assisted by FaMeTN, Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute, and StartupTN with manpower and other resources for implementing the Scheme. A State Level Steering Committee for the scheme shall be constituted with the Secretaries of Finance, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Departments, Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce, Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare and Commissioner of Tribal Welfare. This Committee will review the scheme once a quarter and suggest necessary modifications, if necessary.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport- myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1