Agroforestry component under RKVY OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers WelfareAgroforestry component under RKVYDetailsIn 2023- 24, the scheme was restructured as an Agroforestry component under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) and focusses on Quality Planting Material. Under the scheme, financial assistance is being provided to the beneficiaries for establishment of nurseries and raising of saplings. The scheme shall promote the setting up of new small, medium and hi-tech nurseries for producing Quality Planting Materials (QPM). The details of cost norms is as under: S. No.InterventionUnit cost (upper limit)Remarks1Establishment of new nurseries a. Hi-tech (2 ha)Rs. 50 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur b. Big (1 ha)Rs. 60 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur c. Small (0.5 ha)Rs. 10 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur2Raising saplings in the existing nurseryUpto Rs. 5 lakh / nursery100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners 3a. Strengthening of existing tissue culture unitsRs. 20100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners b. Establishment of tissue culture unitsRs. 200100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners Any other provisions shall be as per RKVY Guidelines. The key objectives of the scheme are as follows: To encourage and expand tree plantation in complementary and integrated manner with crops and livestock, to improve productivity, employment opportunities, income generation and livelihoods of rural households, especially the small farmers. To ensure availability of quality planting material like seeds, seedlings, clones, hybrids, improved varieties, etc. To popularise various Agroforestry practices/models suitable to different agro ecological regions and land use conditions. To create database, information and knowledge support in the area of agroforestry. To provide Research & Development (R&D), extension and capacity building support to agroforestry sector. To identify and catalyze linkages with traditional and emerging markets for the timber and non-timber products generated from agroforestry plantation on farmland including Bio-fuels, matchwood, plywood, silk, fiber, lac, beauty and wellness sector, handicrafts, construction, etc. To promote value addition and processing of agroforestry produce by creating collection and post-harvest facilities for additional income generation by farmers. To provide use of modern technology for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) on the impact of agroforestry in agro-ecology.BenefitsThe scheme targets to provide following benefits:1) Adaptation to impact of climate change effects through microclimate moderation, conservation of natural resources and creation of an additional source of livelihood and income opportunities.2) Enhancement in productivity, soil fertility improvement, soil conservation, nutrient cycling, microclimate improvement etc.3) Enhanced carbon sequestration in farmlands as well as ecosystem services.4) Sustainable availability of Quality Planting Material for agroforestry5) Promote the setting up of new small, medium and hi-tech nurseries for producing Quality Planting Materials (QPM) like seeds, seedlings, clones, and improved varieties to meet the requirement of farmers.EligibilityAll benefits shall be provided through state-specific Annual Action PlanApplication ProcessOfflineAs per RKVY guidelines Step 01: Proposals can be submitted to States. The State Government will examine the project proposal from the viewpoint of suitability to the priorities and objectives of the State and the general framework of RKVY. Step 02: If found suitable, the proposal will be forwarded to the State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC) chaired by Chief Secretary for consideration. Step 03: Based on the approval of the SLSC, the project will be rolled out after an agreement has been signed between the State Government and Project Promoter. Documents Required1) Aadhaar number2) Land documents3) Bank details4) PhotographsThe specific documents for availing the benefits of the program may vary depending on the type of intervention and the state. It is recommended to consult with the relevant authorities for detailed information on documents to be submitted. Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the core purpose of the scheme?Under the scheme, financial assistance is being provided to the beneficiaries for establishment of nurseries and raising of saplings. The scheme shall promote the setting up of new small, medium and hi-tech nurseries for producing Quality Planting Materials (QPM). How will Quality Planting Material be made available?QPM raised under the scheme shall be made available for farmers/SHGs.How will training / capacity building be ensured under the scheme?States can utilize up to 5% of the allocated funds for capacity building and training activities. The training activities, materials and report should be made publicly available for the benefit of all stakeholders. Individuals can contact nearest State Agriculture Officer for training.Which is the nodal agency in the scheme?State government shall be the nodal agency for providing technical support, capacity building, setting up of nurseries, production, and certification of QPM etc.Is there any maximum age limit for the applicant?There is no maximum age limit. however, the applicant should not be a minor.Does the scheme require plantation of any specific seeds in the nursery?No, QPM may be of multipurpose tree species, species having timber value, medicinal plants etc.Who is eligible for the scheme?All the farmers of the State & Union Territory are eligible to take the benefits of this scheme.Is there any application fee?No. The entire application process is completely free of cost.Which documents may be required for application?Aadhaar card, land documents, bank details, and photographs may be asked for application. The specific documents for availing the benefits of the program may vary depending on the type of intervention and the state. For further details, contact nearest State Agriculture Officer.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers WelfareAgroforestry component under RKVYDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsIn 2023-24, the scheme was restructured as an Agroforestry component under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) and focusses on Quality Planting Material. Under the scheme, financial assistance is being provided to the beneficiaries for establishment of nurseries and raising of saplings. The scheme shall promote the setting up of new small, medium and hi-tech nurseries for producing Quality Planting Materials (QPM). The details of cost norms is as under: S. No.InterventionUnit cost (upper limit)Remarks1Establishment of new nurseries a. Hi-tech (2 ha)Rs. 50 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur b. Big (1 ha)Rs. 60 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur c. Small (0.5 ha)Rs. 10 lakhs100% assistance to government agencies for taking up the work on government land and 50% assistance to private agency / individual entrepreneur2Raising saplings in the existing nurseryUpto Rs. 5 lakh / nursery100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners 3a. Strengthening of existing tissue culture unitsRs. 20100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners b. Establishment of tissue culture unitsRs. 200100% assistance to government agencies and 50% back ended credit-linked assistance for private partners Any other provisions shall be as per RKVY Guidelines. The key objectives of the scheme are as follows: To encourage and expand tree plantation in complementary and integrated manner with crops and livestock, to improve productivity, employment opportunities, income generation and livelihoods of rural households, especially the small farmers. To ensure availability of quality planting material like seeds, seedlings, clones, hybrids, improved varieties, etc. To popularise various Agroforestry practices/models suitable to different agro ecological regions and land use conditions. To create database, information and knowledge support in the area of agroforestry. To provide Research & Development (R&D), extension and capacity building support to agroforestry sector. To identify and catalyze linkages with traditional and emerging markets for the timber and non-timber products generated from agroforestry plantation on farmland including Bio-fuels, matchwood, plywood, silk, fiber, lac, beauty and wellness sector, handicrafts, construction, etc. To promote value addition and processing of agroforestry produce by creating collection and post-harvest facilities for additional income generation by farmers. To provide use of modern technology for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) on the impact of agroforestry in agro-ecology.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1