Dr. Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme (Revised 2009) OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In HaryanaDr. Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme (Revised 2009)HospitalMedical TreatmentScheduled CasteScheduled TribeSurgeryDetailsThe scheme Dr. Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme has been revised and implemented by the Directorate of Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana in 2009. The scheme is meant to provide medical treatment facilities to patients suffering from serious ailments requiring surgery of the Kidney, Heart, Liver, Cancer, and Brain or any other life-threatening diseases including Knee surgery and Spinal surgery to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe persons whose annual family income is less than 1,00,000/- per annum and will be implemented through the following Hospitals: All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Patna Medical College Hospital, Patna, Bihar. Jabalpur Hospital and Research Centre, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. B. Barua Cancer Institute, Guwahati, Assam. Birla Heart Foundation, Kolkata, West Bengal. Kalinga Hospital Ltd. Chandrashekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Orissa. Tata Cancer Research Institute, Mumbai, Maharashtra. Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. The Voluntary Health Services, Chennai. All CGHS-approved Hospitals as revised from time to time by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. All State Government Medical Colleges attached Hospitals even if not included under CGHS Scheme. All State Hospitals. All Hospitals recognized by State Government. All Hospitals are fully funded by either the Central Government or the State Governments. All Government Hospitals in District Headquarters/ major towns where surgery or treatment facility for Kidney, Heart, Liver Cancer, and Brain or any other life-threatening disease including knee surgery and spinal surgery is available. In exceptional cases where the Chairperson is personally convinced of the genuineness and justification for the need to cover any Hospital outside the approved list, can be approached for eligible treatment. Disbursement:1. 75% of the estimated cost of the treatment will be directly released to the concerned Hospital, with a maximum ceiling limit of 1,00,000/- in each case, in the form of a crossed cheque/ DD.2. The 50% of the total admissible medical aid will be paid, in advance, directly to the Hospital before surgery as the first installment.3. The remaining 50% amount will be released to the concerned Hospital after the surgery, on submission of the final bills duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the said Hospital.4. Further, medical aid from the foundation and other sources should not exceed the total estimated cost of the treatment. A certificate in this regard should be obtained from the Medical Superintendent of the concerned Hospital.5. The Estimated Cost certificate to be submitted along with the application should contain the date fixed for the surgical operation.BenefitsUnder this scheme medical treatment facilities provide to the patients suffering from serious ailments of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe persons whose annual family income is less than 1,00,000/- p.a.A patient having serious ailments requiring surgery of the Kidney, Heart, Liver, Cancer, Knee, Spinal and Brain, or any other life-threatening diseases may be given treatment.EligibilityThe applicant shall belong to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Community.Annual family income shall not exceed 1,00,000/- per annum.Those who are suffering from major ailments which need surgery such as kidney, heart, liver, cancer, brain or any other life-threatening disease including knee surgery and spinal surgery.Application ProcessOfflineApplication Link: http://haryanascbc.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/application_form_for_medical_aid.pdf Step 01: The applicant shall apply for medical aid in the prescribed application form, duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the concerned Hospital. The application format is given overleaf.Step 02: The application must be submitted along with the caste certificate, income certificate, ration card, and estimated cost of the treatment duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the Hospital.Step 03: The application shall be recommended and forwarded by the local sitting Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha) or by the District Magistrate & Collector / Deputy Commissioner of the concerned District or the Secretary in charge of Health & Social Welfare Departments of the State/UT.Step 04: The duly filled-in form should reach the Director, Dr. Ambedkar Foundation, 15, Janpath, New Delhi, at least 15 days before the date of surgery. All the applications received will be processed by Dr. Ambedkar Foundation. Documents RequiredOriginal Estimated Cost certificate duly signed by the Medical Superintendent of the concerned hospital.Original or attested photocopies of the income certificate, caste certificate, and ration card of the patient.The application should be recommended and forwarded either by a local sitting Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha) or by the District Magistrate & Collectors/Deputy Commissioner of the concerned District or the Secretary in-charge of Health & Social Welfare Departments of State/UT.Medical aid from the Foundation and other sources should not exceed the total estimated cost of the treatment. A certificate in this regard should be obtained from the Medical Superintendent of the concerned Hospital.The Estimated Cost Certificate, accompanied with the application, should contain the date fixed for the surgical operation as far as possible.An attested photograph of the patient should be affixed on the Application Form.Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the scope of this scheme?Under this scheme, the state government provides medical treatment facilities to patients suffering from serious ailments to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe persons whose annual family income is less than 1,00,000/- per annum.What are the types of medical treatments provided under this scheme?Patients having serious ailments requiring surgery of the Kidney, Heart, Liver, Cancer, Knee, Spinal, and Brain, or any other life-threatening diseases may be provided treatment under this scheme.How much amount of the treatment will be directly released to the concerned Hospital?The 75% of the estimated cost of the treatment will be directly released to the concerned Hospital, with a maximum ceiling limit of 1,00,000/- in each case, in the form of a crossed cheque / DD.How much amount of the total admissible medical aid will be paid, in advance to the concerned Hospital?The 50% of the total admissible medical aid will be paid, in advance, directly to the Hospital before surgery as the first installment. The remaining 50% amount will be released to the concerned Hospital after the surgery, on submission of the final bills duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the said Hospital.Is this scheme for all type of patient?No, this scheme is only for the patient of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities.What should be the family income to avail the benefit of this scheme?The annual family income should be less than 1,00,000/- per annum.How I can apply for the medical aid?The applicant shall apply for medical aid in the prescribed application form, duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the concerned Hospital.Can I apply only through offline mode for medical aid?Yes, the duly filled-in form should reach the Director, Dr. Ambedkar Foundation, 15, Janpath, New Delhi, at least 15 days before the date of surgery.Who will process the application?All the applications received will be processed by Dr. Ambedkar Foundation.Sources And ReferencesWebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In HaryanaDr. Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme (Revised 2009)HospitalMedical TreatmentScheduled CasteScheduled TribeSurgeryDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe scheme Dr. Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme has been revised and implemented by the Directorate of Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana in 2009. The scheme is meant to provide medical treatment facilities to patients suffering from serious ailments requiring surgery of the Kidney, Heart, Liver, Cancer, and Brain or any other life-threatening diseases including Knee surgery and Spinal surgery to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe persons whose annual family income is less than 1,00,000/- per annum and will be implemented through the following Hospitals: All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Patna Medical College Hospital, Patna, Bihar. Jabalpur Hospital and Research Centre, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. B. Barua Cancer Institute, Guwahati, Assam. Birla Heart Foundation, Kolkata, West Bengal. Kalinga Hospital Ltd. Chandrashekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Orissa. Tata Cancer Research Institute, Mumbai, Maharashtra. Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh. The Voluntary Health Services, Chennai. All CGHS-approved Hospitals as revised from time to time by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. All State Government Medical Colleges attached Hospitals even if not included under CGHS Scheme. All State Hospitals. All Hospitals recognized by State Government. All Hospitals are fully funded by either the Central Government or the State Governments. All Government Hospitals in District Headquarters/ major towns where surgery or treatment facility for Kidney, Heart, Liver Cancer, and Brain or any other life-threatening disease including knee surgery and spinal surgery is available. In exceptional cases where the Chairperson is personally convinced of the genuineness and justification for the need to cover any Hospital outside the approved list, can be approached for eligible treatment. Disbursement:1. 75% of the estimated cost of the treatment will be directly released to the concerned Hospital, with a maximum ceiling limit of 1,00,000/- in each case, in the form of a crossed cheque/ DD.2. The 50% of the total admissible medical aid will be paid, in advance, directly to the Hospital before surgery as the first installment.3. The remaining 50% amount will be released to the concerned Hospital after the surgery, on submission of the final bills duly certified by the Medical Superintendent of the said Hospital.4. Further, medical aid from the foundation and other sources should not exceed the total estimated cost of the treatment. A certificate in this regard should be obtained from the Medical Superintendent of the concerned Hospital.5. The Estimated Cost certificate to be submitted along with the application should contain the date fixed for the surgical operation.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport- myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1