Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana - Cashless Health Care In State Government Hospitals OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In OdishaBiju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana - Cashless Health Care In State Government HospitalsHealthHealth CareHospitalsSmart Health CardDetailsBiju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) was launched by the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Odisha on 15th August 2018, as a path-breaking program to provide universal health coverage, with special emphasis on the health protection of vulnerable families and women. The objective of this scheme is to protect economically vulnerable families from falling into this poverty trap by catastrophic health expenditure. In the "Cashless Health Care in Impaneled Private Hospitals" component, the State Government will bear the cost of healthcare provided in empanelled private hospitals for identified economically vulnerable families in the State, for annual health coverage of 5,00,000 per family and an additional 5,00,000 for the women members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit. Since its inception, the BSKY has launched a new era in Universal Health Coverage, with over 45,00,000 instances of cashless treatment being provided each month. Grievance RedressalHelpline Number for BSKY: 155369 (6 AM to 10 PM) & 104 (24 x 7) Mo Sarkar Feedback SystemHon ble Chief Minister Always Directs The Administration To Ensure The Dignity Of The Citizens While Availing Government Program Benefits. With This Vision, The Mo Sarkar Feedback System Has Been Launched To Directly Get Feedback From The Beneficiaries And The Stakeholders.In BSKY Also, The State Government Will Take Direct Feedback From The Beneficiaries And The Hospitals Regarding The Implementation Of The Program. The Citizens Can Also Provide Feedback On The Mo Sarkar Call Center No 14545. BenefitsFamilies having BSKY Smart Health Card/ NFSA/ SFSS card can avail of cashless IPD and Day care treatment for the procedures for which the hospital is empanelled under BSKY within or outside the State up to the annual amount covered. The scheme provides cashless health coverage of 5,00,000 per annum per family and an additional 5,00,000 for women members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit at empanelled private hospitals within and outside Odisha. PACKAGESThe updated package list under BSKY, as modified from time to time is available on the website www.bsky.odisha.gov.in. About 3% of the total packages are reserved for Government health institutions. About 10% of the packages are under the referral category, which can be availed only on referral by the appropriate authority. 1. Reserved PackagesTreatment under these packages is only available in Govt. healthcare facilities. Treatment for minor ailments, and diseases under National Health Programs such as Management of superficial burns, minor injuries, Malaria, Typhoid fever, Gastroenteritis, Diarrhea, Dysentery, Tuberculosis, Urinary Tract Infection, Heat stroke, and surgeries for hydrocele, Abscess drainage, Lipoma and cyst excision and procedures like Dilatation and Curettage and MTP are reserved for Government facilities. 2. Referral PackageThe updated list of referral packages is available on the website www.bsky.odisha.gov.in. 3. Open PackagesAny beneficiary can directly walk into any empanelled private hospital and avail of the treatment under this category of packages if he is found suitable for that package by the treating doctor of the empanelled hospital. EligibilityAll BSKY Smart Health Card/ National Food Security Act (NFSA)/ State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) card holders are eligible. For the referral of the patient to the empanelled private hospital for treatmentThe referral will be done if the particular package/ procedure cannot be provided by a Government facility in the district. Cases will be referred if there is a long waiting time to undertake the procedure at a Government facility in the district. Where there is an emergency case that requires immediate referral.Referral process under BSKY is decentralized up to the Sub-Divisional Hospital level. The following authorities have been designated to issue referrals to beneficiaries under BSKY.a) District Headquarter Hospital: CDM & PHO/ District Medical Officer-cumSuperintendent & concerned Specialist b) Sub-divisional Hospital: Superintendent & concerned Specialist c) All Govt. Medical College & Hospitals: Superintendent & HoDs of concerned Department of the Medical College & Hospitals Application ProcessOfflineThere is no direct enrolment process under Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. All families covered under NFSA / SFSS within Odisha are eligible beneficiaries under this scheme. For BSKY Smart Health CardsBSKY Smart Health Cards are distributed by the Government to each family. The beneficiary can also collect her/his BSKY Smart Health Card at designated Mo Seva Kendra by producing her/his valid NFSA/ SFSS Card.Documents RequiredFor Cashless IPD and Day Care TreatmentBSKY Smart Health Card / National Food Security Act (NFSA) Card / State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) Card For getting 5,00,000 health coverage per annum per family and 10,00,000 health coverage per annum for women members of the familyBiju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY) Card, or Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card, or Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) CardNOTE: For low- income families who do not have these cards, a valid income certificate (annual income below 50,000/- in rural areas and below 60,000/- in urban areas) will be required to be produced at the Empanelled Hospital.Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat Is Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana? Every life is precious... has always been the guiding principle of the Hon ble Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. The vision of the Hon ble Chief Minister has been to provide assurance of quality health care to all the citizens of the State, especially the vulnerable sections. With this objective, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana has been launched as a pathbreaking program to provide universal health coverage, with special emphasis on the health protection of economically vulnerable families. To achieve its objectives, the BSKY has two components: A. State Government will bear the full cost of all health services delivered to all patients (irrespective of income, status, or residence) in all State Government health care facilities starting from Sub center level to District Head Quarter and Government Medical College Hospital and Blood Bank level. B. State Government will bear the cost of healthcare provided in impaneled private hospitals for over 9,65,00,000 economically vulnerable families in the State, amounting to Annual Health coverage of 5,00,000 per family and an additional 5,00,000 for the women members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit. Who Is Eligible? A. All families are eligible for healthcare services at Government Healthcare Institutions to District Head Quarter Hospitals and Government Medical College Hospitals and the Blood Bank level, for which the state Govt will bear the total cost. B. For additional healthcare facilities beyond the District Headquarters hospital level, through annual health coverage of 5,00,000 per annum per family and an additional Rs. 5lakh for the women members of the family after exhausting of initial limit, all BSKY Smart Card holders and NFSA/ SFSA card holders are eligible to avail of the special health coverage, for which State Government will bear the cost. What Are The Benefits Of The Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana Scheme?A. All health services charges are borne by the State Government, including those for drugs, diagnostics, dialysis, Cancer chemotherapy, OT, I.C.U, in-patient admission blood bank services, etc., in all government health institutions up to Government Medical College Hospital level, for all persons. B. Families having BSKY Smart Health Card can avail of cashless treatment at any impaneled private hospital under BSKY within or outside the State. Cardholder families can help with facilities such as registration, consultation, medical tests, pathologies, treatment, IPD, and follow-up consultation under BSKY at any impaneled private hospital. State Government will bear the cost up to the annual coverage amount. In Which Hospital Can The Beneficiaries Get Free Treatment?A. Under universal health coverage cost of health care in all Public Health Care Institutions from Sub-centre to District Head Quarters Hospitals and Government Medical Colleges hospitals and Blood Bank are entirely borne by State Government. B. BSKY Smart Card holders can avail treatment at any impaneled private hospitals within or outside of the State for which the State Government will bear the cost up to the annual coverage amount. Is There Any Enrolment Process?No, there is no direct enrolment under BSKY. However, families covered underNFSA / SFSA within Odisha is auto-enrolled under this scheme. Any family who did not collect her/his BSKY Smart Health Card during mass distribution can collect a new/duplicate card from Mo Seva Kendra by producing her/his valid NFSA/ SFSA Card. Who Is There To Facilitate At The Point Of Service?Swasthya Mitras are deployed at each help desk of impaneled private hospitals to facilitate the beneficiaries. During Emergency Can I Avail Cashless Treatment At Any Impaneled Hospitals Without Carrying A Card?Yes, all BSKY Smart Card holders are eligible to avail of cashless treatment at impaneled private hospitals even during emergencies. BSKY beneficiaries are allowed to submit the BSKY Smart Card as eligibility at the BSKY helpdesk counter within 72 hours of hospitalization. How Many Members In My Family Are Eligible To Avail Of Cashless Treatment Under BSKY At Impaneled Private Hospitals? All the registered family members under NFSA/ SFSA who are issued with BSKY Smart Cards are eligible to avail 5,00,000 for family and an additional 5,00,000 for the female members after exhaustion of an initial 5,00,000 at any impaneled private hospitals under BSKY. How To Get Card Duplicate BSKY Card If Original Card Lost/ Damaged?If a beneficiary either loses/ damages his / her card then the same can be obtained from the nearest Mo Seva Kendra by producing his/her NFSA/ SFSA card. How To Get Card Related Information And Also Rectify Errors In The Card Such As Adding Or Deleting A Member From Card?Card-related information can be accessed from the web-portal bsky.odisha.gov.in or from Mo Seva Kendra's service point. Any error relating to the card can be rectified at Mo Seva Kendra after producing NFSA/ SFSA card. Before requesting any change relating to information available in the BSKY Card, a beneficiary has to first get his/her details modified in the NFSA/ SFSA card. Where To Get The List Of Empanelled Hospitals For Availing Health- Related Services Using BSKY Smart Health Card?The list of empanelled hospitals is available in the web portal bsky.odisha.gov.in in the link at empanelled hospitals list. A user can get the details of empanelled hospitals both within or outside the state from the said web portal. How Do We Calculate The Annual Coverage Amount For Male And Female Members Of The Family ?All BSKY smart card holder s health-related ailments expenses are borne by The government of Odisha limited to 5,00,000 per family (an additional 5,00,000 for female members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit) per annum starting from 1st September 2021 at an impaneled private hospital within or outside of the State. For example: If in a family there are two members one male member and another women member then, A. If a male member falls sick and exhausts 3,00,000 from the BSKY Smart Health card and then the women member falls ill, she can avail of up to 7,00,000 under the card. B. If a male member doesn t fall sick then women member falls sick she can avail of up to 10,00,000 under the card. C. If a women member falls sick and exhausts 3,00,000 from BSKY smart health card, then if male members fall sick, they can avail of 2,00,000 from the card. What Is The Helpline Number For BSKY?Any person can raise any query or complaint regarding Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana with toll-free number 104 which is available 24X7. Further, scheme details and a list of impaneled hospitals can also be seen on the websites: health.odisha.gov.in, bsky.odisha.gov.in, and www.nhmorissa.gov.in. Is There A Feedback Mechanism In The BSKY?Hon ble Chief Minister always directs the administration to ensure the dignity of the citizens while availing government program benefits. With this vision, the Mo Sarkar feedback system has been launched to directly get feedback from the beneficiaries and the stakeholders. In BSKY also, the State Government will take direct feedback from the beneficiaries and the Hospitals regarding the implementation of the program. The citizens can also provide feedback on the Mo Sarkar Call center no 14545. Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesFAQsPackage RatesOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In OdishaBiju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana - Cashless Health Care In State Government HospitalsHealthHealth CareHospitalsSmart Health CardDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsBiju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) was launched by the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Odisha on 15th August 2018, as a path-breaking program to provide universal health coverage, with special emphasis on the health protection of vulnerable families and women. The objective of this scheme is to protect economically vulnerable families from falling into this poverty trap by catastrophic health expenditure. In the "Cashless Health Care in Impaneled Private Hospitals" component, the State Government will bear the cost of healthcare provided in empanelled private hospitals for identified economically vulnerable families in the State, for annual health coverage of 5,00,000 per family and an additional 5,00,000 for the women members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit. Since its inception, the BSKY has launched a new era in Universal Health Coverage, with over 45,00,000 instances of cashless treatment being provided each month. Grievance RedressalHelpline Number for BSKY: 155369 (6 AM to 10 PM) & 104 (24 x 7) Mo Sarkar Feedback SystemHon ble Chief Minister Always Directs The Administration To Ensure The Dignity Of The Citizens While Availing Government Program Benefits. With This Vision, The Mo Sarkar Feedback System Has Been Launched To Directly Get Feedback From The Beneficiaries And The Stakeholders.In BSKY Also, The State Government Will Take Direct Feedback From The Beneficiaries And The Hospitals Regarding The Implementation Of The Program. The Citizens Can Also Provide Feedback On The Mo Sarkar Call Center No 14545. OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1