Central Sector Scheme Of Scholarship For College And University Students Sign InBackDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsSources And ReferencesFeedback OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of EducationCentral Sector Scheme Of Scholarship For College And University StudentsFinancial AssistanceScholarshipStudentDetailsA scholarship scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their day-to- day expenses while pursuing higher studies. The scholarships are awarded on the basis of the results of the Higher Secondary / Class 12th Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided for pursuing graduate / postgraduate degrees in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering, etc. Students who are above the 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class 12th of 10+2 pattern or equivalent, and are pursuing regular degree courses at colleges/institutions recognized by AICTE and respective Regulatory Bodies concerned, are eligible for this scheme.The rate of scholarship is 12,000/-per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses and 20,000 per annum at the PostGraduation level. Students pursuing professional courses, in case, where the duration of the course is five (5) years/Integrated course will get 20,000/-per annum in the 4th and 5th year. However, students pursuing technical courses such as B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. 12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year and 20,000 in the 4th year. Note: The rate of scholarship is 10,000/-per annum for the first three years of fresh/renewal scholarships with respect to the academic year 2021-22, even if the actual release happens in FY 2022-23.BenefitsRate of Scholarship: 12,000/-per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses. 20,000 per annum at the PostGraduation level. Students pursuing professional courses, in case, where the duration of the course is five (5) years/Integrated course will get 20,000/-per annum in the 4th and 5th year. Students pursuing technical courses such as B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. 12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year and 20,000 in the 4th year. Payment of Scholarship:Students are required to have their bank accounts opened, especially, in their names for availing of the benefits under the scheme. The scholarship will be disbursed directly into the savings bank accounts of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. The student can track their payment status from the template Know Your Payment in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) portal [ https://pfms.nic.in/Users/LoginDetails/Login.aspx] either by indicating Aadhaar number or bank account number or NSP Application ID.EligibilityThe applicant must be above the 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class 12th of 10+2 pattern or equivalent.The applicant must be pursuing regular degree courses and not correspondence or distance mode or pursuing Diploma courses.The applicant must be pursuing courses at colleges/institutions recognized by the All India Council for Technical Education and respective Regulatory Bodies concerned.The applicant must not be the availing benefit of any other scholarship schemes including State-run scholarship schemes/ fee waivers & reimbursement schemes.The gross parental/family income of the applicant should not exceed 4,50,000 per annum.For renewal of scholarship in each year of study, besides getting at least 50% marks in the Annual Examination, maintenance of adequate attendance of at least 75%, will also be the criteria. Note:Students changing his/ her college/institute of study will be allowed to continue/renew the scholarship provided the course of study and the institution is having valid AISHE Code; The AISHE code can be checked in the portal: https://aishe.gov.in/aishe/aisheCode RESERVATION - Students belonging to reserved categories/weaker sections /minorities etc. are eligible to get the benefit of reservation on the basis of merit, subject to Central Reservation Policy [i.e. 15% seats are earmarked for SCs, 7.5% for STs, and 27 % for OBCs and 5% horizontal reservation for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in all the categories].The Central Reservation Policy will be applicable in filling the slots against each year's target. If slots under a specific group are not filled after considering all the States/UTs, the vacant slots will be allocated to other categories so that the maximum number of eligible students can get the benefit, subject to the overall ceiling of slots.ExclusionsStudents who are pursuing correspondence or distance mode or pursuing Diploma courses.Students who are already availing the benefit from any other scholarship schemes including State run scholarship schemes/ fee waiver & reimbursement schemes. Application ProcessOnlineProcedure for Application:The applications are received online only. Verification of credentials of the students like caste, educational qualifications, etc. is done through the DIGILOCKER facility of the MeitY, Govt. of India.National Scholarships Portal (NSP) (www.scholarships.gov.in) will provide the timelines for opening & closing of the portal.The Guidelines for application, verification, selection, and disbursement of the scholarship will be as per the NSP.A selection list would be generated/displayed on NSP.Online applications will be verified at two levels i.e by the Institute, where the student is studying, and thereafter by the concerned State Higher Education Department or any other Agency/ Official nominated by the State as State NodalAgency (both for fresh and renewal applicants).The latest guideline on Timelines will be made available on NSP.Students will not be permanently debarred for scholarships due to delays to renew or verification. However, students will have to submit renewal applications within a cut-off date. Renewal for that year will not be allowed if an applicant misses this deadline. Grievance Redressal:In case of any grievances/complaints regarding the above scheme, the same may be registered to the following link: http://pgportal.gov.in/grievancenew.aspx other than to the Nodal Officer whose email is available on the NSP portal (Services Tab). Contact us: Section Officer National Scholarship Division Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, West Block 1, 2nd Floor, Wing 6, Room No. 6, R. K. Puram, Sector 1, New Delhi 110066. Tele: 011- 20862360 E-mail: es3.edu@nic.in Documents RequiredBank Passbook for filling in bank detailsAadhaar NumberParental Income Certificate An e-mail ID Caste Certificate wherever required Disability Certificate wherever required.Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the Methodology Adopted For Generating Merit List For Selecting The Beneficiaries Under The Scheme?From the eligible applicants, a merit list is drawn based on gender (50 boys: 50 girls), stream (3-Science: 2- Commerce: 1-Humanities), Category (SC-15 % / ST-7.5 % and OBC-27 % ), and 3 % horizontal Reservation is provided for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) from individual State Education Boards. The total scholarship slots are restricted to the allocated quota earmarked for individual Boards as per the scheme guidelines.What Is The Rate Of Scholarship Under The Scheme?The rate of scholarship is Rs. 10000/- per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses and Rs. 20000/- per annum at the Post-Graduation level. Students pursuing professional courses are paid Rs. 20,000/- per annum in the 4th and 5th years.What Is The Duration Of Scholarships And Criteria For Renewal Under The Scheme?The scholarship is renewed from year to year up to Post Graduate level in the same stream. For all professional courses, and scholarships will be renewed till the Graduation level. For all the courses the scholarship would be renewed up to a maximum of five (5) years. The renewal of scholarship is further subject to the student meeting the following criteria:- (i) Secured 60 % or more marks for the two preceding semesters or annual examination which determines his/her promotion to the next class, (ii) maintenance of attendance of at least 75 % by the scholars and (iii) maintenance of discipline i.e. the scholars should not have been involved in any ragging activities. What Is The Methodology For Disbursement Of Scholarship Under The Scheme?The scholarship is disbursed through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode i.e. directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiary. To have seamless disbursal of scholarships, students are required to seed the Aadhaar with the bank account as mentioned in the application form.What Precautions Are To Be Exercised While Selecting The Institution From The Drop Down Menu?Data of only those institutions which have the AISHE (All India Survey of Higher Education) Code is available on the National Scholarship Portal. The student is required to select the correct institution because once the application is submitted, the institution's name cannot be changed on the NSP. Institutions which does not have the AISHE code can also have to obtain the AISHE Code. Institutions are required to visit the website: http://aishe.nic.in to apply for AISHE. User ID and Password is required by the institutions for verifying the applications on NSP.What Are The Documents That Are Required To Be Uploaded For Applying And Verification?No documents are required to be uploaded at the time of online application, on the National Scholarship Portal. However, it must be kept ready which would be required at the time of verification by the institutions.What Instructions Should Be Followed By Students While Filling Up Bank Account Details?(i) The bank account should be in the student s name. (ii) Students must select their bank/branch name carefully from the drop-down list. (iii) Thereafter the complete account number must be entered correctly. (Any variation in the bank account number will be subject to rejection). (iv) Bank Account holders must check their Know your Customer (KYC) status from bank and if required the KYC must be done for successful transaction of scholarship amount. (v) Bank Account must be operational /active. (vi) Bank Account must be preferably in any Nationalized Bank with core banking facility.What Is UID Number/Aadhaar Number?UID number otherwise known as Aadhaar number is Unique Identification Number given by Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). The Aadhaar Number should be seeded with the Bank Account in which Scholarship Amount is desired to be transferred. For this the concerned Bank may be contacted with a copy of the Aadhaar card. What Is A Temporary ID?Temporary ID (TID) is only a reference number provided to the applicants as a token of their registration in the online database. Is There Any Permanent ID?Yes. A Permanent ID (PID) will be provided to the candidate once his/her application is submitted online. It will be conveyed to candidates through SMS and e-mail. Students should remember their PID as it will be required at the time of renewal application. Receipt of PID does not guarantee award of scholarship.What Should I Do If I Forget My Temporary ID/Permanent ID?The process of re-collection of the Temporary/Permanent id is given as below: Student login-->Forgot Registration Details? then enter the basic fields accordingly and click on the button Get Registration details .How Should I Check The Status Of My Application Online?You have to login under the option Student Login by entering your Permanent ID and Date of Birth. After login, you will be able to view the option Check Your Status . Under this option you can check your online application status. How Do I Know The Name And Address Of Nodal Officers My State Education Board/CBSE/CISCE?The name and contact details of the Nodal Officer of the State Education Boards/CBSE/CISCE are available under the link of Department of Higher Education (Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students), Services on the home page of National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Where To Lodge Complaints/Queries/Grievances Regarding Scholarship Application?Technical complaints regarding working of the portal/ processing of online application/verification status, etc. may be addressed to the Helpdesk of National Scholarship Portal at (e-mail: dhe@nsp.gov.in or Tel: 0120-6619540). Queries/requests regarding scheme guidelines, eligibility, etc. may be addressed to the concerned State Education Board as well as this Ministry (e-mail: csssgre@gmail.com or Tel: 011-26172491 & 26165238). Grievances regarding non-receipt of fresh/renewal scholarship under Ministry of HRD s Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students may be registered on the following link http://pgportal.gov.in/grievancenew.aspx Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesFAQsOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of EducationCentral Sector Scheme Of Scholarship For College And University StudentsFinancial AssistanceScholarshipStudentDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsA scholarship scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. The scholarships are awarded on the basis of the results of the Higher Secondary / Class 12th Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided for pursuing graduate / postgraduate degrees in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering, etc. Students who are above the 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class 12th of 10+2 pattern or equivalent, and are pursuing regular degree courses at colleges/institutions recognized by AICTE and respective Regulatory Bodies concerned, are eligible for this scheme.The rate of scholarship is 12,000/-per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses and 20,000 per annum at the PostGraduation level. Students pursuing professional courses, in case, where the duration of the course is five (5) years/Integrated course will get 20,000/-per annum in the 4th and 5th year. However, students pursuing technical courses such as B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. 12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year and 20,000 in the 4th year. Note: The rate of scholarship is 10,000/-per annum for the first three years of fresh/renewal scholarships with respect to the academic year 2021-22, even if the actual release happens in FY 2022-23.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1