Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium EnterprisesEntrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme EntrepreneurshipESDPMSMESelf-employmentSkill DevelopmentDetailsThe O/o DC-MSME under the "Development of MSMEs" vertical has launched the "Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme (ESDP)". The Programme is being organized regularly to nurture the talent of youth by enlightening them on various aspects of industrial/business activity required for setting up MSMEs. These Programmes are conducted for youth and other people interested in setting up their own industrial/self- employment venture. Such activities are also organized in ITIs, Polytechnics and other technical institutions/business schools, where skill/talent is available to motivate them towards self-employment.Aims and objectives:To make aware/train entrepreneurial culture among people.To motivate young persons (Men and Women) representing different sections of society, including SC, ST, Women and Physically Handicapped, Ex-Servicemen and BPL persons, to consider entrepreneurship or self-employment as one of the career options.To enable the target group to think and act in an entrepreneurial way by imparting technical and business skills at an early stage in their career, so that it not only encourages them to consider entrepreneurship as a career opportunity but also helps them become successful in any profession.To provide basic entrepreneurship training aimed at helping entrepreneurs to put their ideas into action, bring an attitudinal & behavioural change in the target group and build their personal entrepreneurial skills.To provide advanced entrepreneurship and advanced management training aimed at helping entrepreneurs by providing high-end/advanced training in the domains of e-commerce, BPO, software, Biotech, Modern Agricultural & Animal Husbandry and processing, Drug Discovery, Genomics, Tech. acquisition from premier labs like BARC/CSIR/DRDO, etc. with the help of premier institutes such as IIMs/IITs/ICAR/CSIR/NIT/Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs), post harvesting and Food Processing institutes, Engineering Institutes, etc.To develop technical and vocational skills or upgrade existing skills of the target group.To support the establishment of new MSMEs and enhance growth of existing ones which will result in improved productivity and job creation. The Implementing Agencies (IAs) will be entrusted with the task of Udyam Registration of ESDP beneficiaries.To support MBA/Engineering students by providing opportunities for Vocational Training and in-depth study and outcome of a few typical ESDP programmes conducted, preparing a compendium of available technology with premier lab for dissemination of technology, etc. to MSMEs. Besides, they will be assigned other work which will be an opportunity to work in the Govt. setup. The hired students will be provided with an experience certificate and stipend.BenefitsAssistance under the ESDP Scheme: The programme includes the following modules-1. Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme (EAP): One Day Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme is an activity to identify and motivate traditional/non- traditional entrepreneurs, who have the potential to set up MSEs with the objective of leading them towards entrepreneurship/self- employment. It consists of formal inaugural and technical sessions and one-to-one discussions with interested participants for counselling and mentoring. At least one EAP should be organized in each district. The intake capacity for the programme will be 50 to 100 persons.2. Entrepreneurship-cum-Skill Development Programme (E-SDP)Existing E-SDP: This six-week activity is aimed at conducting special entrepreneurship development programmes for new livelihood enterprise creation and rural enterprise development. This is a product-cum-process oriented activity-based programme. Comprehensive training programmes will be organized to upgrade the skills of prospective entrepreneurs coupled with specific skills in hands-on practice or demonstration relating to activities. The programme is suitably tailored to the needs of trade or specific activity and the target group of trainees covered under the specific training programme.Advanced E-SDP: The Minimum One-Week Advanced E-SDP Programme will have to be conducted with the intake capacity for the programme will be about 20 participants. The advanced ESOP programmes will be conducted through IIMs/IITs/ICAR/CSIR/BARC/IISC/NIT/Agricultural University of Central and State government etc. of repute will be roped in to provide ESDP training.3. Management Development Programme (MDP)Existing MDP: This one-week activity is aimed at capacity building of MSMEs through inputs on management practice systems to improve their decision-making capabilities resulting in higher productivity and profitability of existing and potential entrepreneurs and developing new enterprises. Inputs on a variety of topics of managerial functions will be provided to the participants by experts, which aim at the dissemination of knowledge of scientific/modern management techniques/practices. The intake capacity for the programme will be 25-30 participants. The age of the participants will be 18 years and above.Advanced MOP: The Minimum One-week Advanced MOP Programme will have an intake capacity for the programme will be about 25 participants. The Advance MDP Training Programmes will be conducted through State Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs) and/or other reputed institutions in this domain of Central or State Governments/NITs/Regional Engineering Colleges/Agricultural colleges/Autonomous bodies of Central/State Governments to provide MDP training to MSMEs promoters/executives. In this programme Central/State Governments (including the Ministry of MSME)/Bank officers and other stakeholders can also participate to enhance their knowledge with a minimum of 75% MSME participants.Note 01: The activities/programmes will be conducted through different field offices of the office of DC (MSME), MSME-DIs, Technology Centres and State Government Agencies, as approved by the Empowered committee headed by AS&DC( MSME) from time to time.Note 02: Information on flagship programmes/schemes such as MUDRA, Start-up India and Stand-up India, ASPIRE, PMEGP and SC/ST Hub shall be provided to the participants.Note 03: While providing in-puts on financing, a couple of sessions on alternate sources of funding like Angel Funding, Venture Capital, Crowd Funding etc. may be included in the programme syllabus.Note 04: Some State Governments have introduced schemes for new entrepreneurs. Adequate care should be taken to provide information on these schemes as well.Note 05: Special programmes should be organized in Aspirational, Backward Districts and the North Eastern Region (NER) based on the local strength and potential.EligibilityThe age of the participants will be 18 years and above.Youth and other people interested in setting up their own industrial/business/self-employment venture.The qualification of the participants and structure of the fees will be decided by the Implementing Agencies i.e. Director/Officer in charge of the programme conducting organization.About 40% of the targeted beneficiaries of E-SDPs should be from weaker sections of the Society (SC/ST/Women/Physically Handicapped).Note: Payment of fee will be exempted for SC, ST, Differently- Abled Persons, Ex-Servicemen, Below Poverty Line (BPL) category participants and women.Application ProcessOfflineApplication Process:The interested & eligible candidates may please contact the nearby MSME Development Institute, MSME-Technology Centre.Addresses and contact details of these organizations are available on Web Portal: https://dcmsme.gov.in/All_MSME_DIs_TCs.aspx Procedure for selection of candidates:Web-based MIS shall be developed for developing an integrated database of existing and potential entrepreneurs. Implementing Agencies (IAs) shall upload their progress data on MIS under ESOP on real real-time basis and each IA shall develop its own MIS for the said purpose and integrate the same with MIS under ESOP managed by % DC MSME. Aadhaar's authenticated attendance is mandatory to prevent duplication of beneficiaries under the scheme. All the field offices of DC MSME shall be involved in identifying the candidates for the programme, through inviting online applications.The minimum age of participants in the programmes should be 18 years. However, the head of the programme conducting organization may grant relaxation in special cases like school drop-outs etc. based on his/her judicious discretion. Generally, there would be no upper age limit. The qualification for participation in a particular programme shall be mentioned in the programme notification taking into consideration the subject of the training programme.Preference would be given to the candidates from SC, ST, Women, Ex- Service Persons of Defence Forces, Differently abled and BPL category persons.For Advanced E-SDP and Advanced MDP programmes, the selection of candidates will be based on the recommendations of Field Offices/Headquarter/Other Implementing Agencies. Whereas, the final decision on the selection criteria rests with the AS&DC (MSME)/Headquarters.Documents Required1. Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, etc.2. Proof of age3. Caste certificate, if applicable4. Disability certificate, if applicable5. Any other document, if required.Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme ?The Programme is being organized regularly to nurture the talent of youth by enlightening them on various aspects of industrial/business activity required for setting up MSEs. These Programmes are conducted for youth and other people interested to set up their own industrial/self-employment venture. Such activities are also organized in ITIs, Polytechnics and other technical institutions/business schools, where skill/talent is available to motivate them towards self-employment.What is the objective of this programme?The objective of the programme is to motivate young persons (Men and Women) representing different sections of the society including SC/ST women, physically handicapped, Ex- servicemen, and BPL persons to consider self-employment or entrepreneurship as one of the career options. The ultimate objective is to promote new enterprises, build capacity of existing MSMEs and inculcate entrepreneurial culture in the country.Which is the implementing agency of this programme?Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Government of IndiaWho is eligible under the programme?The youth and other people interested in setting up their own industrial/business/self- employment venture are eligible to avail of the assistance under the programme.What is the minimum age criterion for the programme? The age of the participants will be 18 years and above.What are the qualification criteria for the participants?The qualification of the participants and structure of the fees will be decided by the Implementing Agencies i.e. Director/Officer in charge of the programme conducting organization.Will participants have to pay any fees for the programme?Yes, the participants need to pay the fee but the participants belonging to SC, ST, Differently-Abled Persons, Ex-Servicemen, Below Poverty Line (BPL) category, and women participants will be exempted from the fee.What is the nature of assistance under the ESDP programme?The following activities are conducted under the ESDP Scheme (a) Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme (EAP) Two Weeks (b) Entrepreneurship-cum- Skill Development Programme (E-SDP) Six Weeks and (c) Management Development Programme (MDP) One WeekThrough whom will the activities/programmes be implemented?The activities/programmes will be conducted through Implementing Agencies (IAs) i.e. MSME-DIs & MSME-TCs under the Office of Development Commissioner (MSME); Ministries, Departments, organizations/, Corporations, PSUs, agencies under the administrative control of Central/State Governments, as approved by the Empowered Committee headed by AS & DC (MSME) from time to time. Respective IAs (other than MSME-DIs) will be responsible for submitting utilization certificates for grants/funds issued to them by the end of financial year. Overall 40% of the targeted beneficiaries of EAPs and E-SDPs should be Women. How to participate in the programme?The eligible & interested candidates may please contact the nearby MSME Development Institute, MSME-Technology Centre. Sources And ReferencesMSME-WebsiteGuidelinesOfficial WebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium EnterprisesEntrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme EntrepreneurshipESDPMSMESelf-employmentSkill DevelopmentDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe O/o DC-MSME under the "Development of MSMEs" vertical has launched the "Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme (ESDP)". The Programme is being organized regularly to nurture the talent of youth by enlightening them on various aspects of industrial/business activity required for setting up MSMEs. These Programmes are conducted for youth and other people interested in setting up their own industrial/self-employment venture. Such activities are also organized in ITIs, Polytechnics and other technical institutions/business schools, where skill/talent is available to motivate them towards self-employment.Aims and objectives:To make aware/train entrepreneurial culture among people.To motivate young persons (Men and Women) representing different sections of society, including SC, ST, Women and Physically Handicapped, Ex-Servicemen and BPL persons, to consider entrepreneurship or self-employment as one of the career options.To enable the target group to think and act in an entrepreneurial way by imparting technical and business skills at an early stage in their career, so that it not only encourages them to consider entrepreneurship as a career opportunity but also helps them become successful in any profession.To provide basic entrepreneurship training aimed at helping entrepreneurs to put their ideas into action, bring an attitudinal & behavioural change in the target group and build their personal entrepreneurial skills.To provide advanced entrepreneurship and advanced management training aimed at helping entrepreneurs by providing high-end/advanced training in the domains of e-commerce, BPO, software, Biotech, Modern Agricultural & Animal Husbandry and processing, Drug Discovery, Genomics, Tech. acquisition from premier labs like BARC/CSIR/DRDO, etc. with the help of premier institutes such as IIMs/IITs/ICAR/CSIR/NIT/Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs), post harvesting and Food Processing institutes, Engineering Institutes, etc.To develop technical and vocational skills or upgrade existing skills of the target group.To support the establishment of new MSMEs and enhance growth of existing ones which will result in improved productivity and job creation. The Implementing Agencies (IAs) will be entrusted with the task of Udyam Registration of ESDP beneficiaries.To support MBA/Engineering students by providing opportunities for Vocational Training and in-depth study and outcome of a few typical ESDP programmes conducted, preparing a compendium of available technology with premier lab for dissemination of technology, etc. to MSMEs. Besides, they will be assigned other work which will be an opportunity to work in the Govt. setup. The hired students will be provided with an experience certificate and stipend.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1