Internship Programme By The Ministry Of External Affairs OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of External AffairsInternship Programme By The Ministry Of External AffairsInternshipDetailsThe Ministry of External Affairs of the Govt. of India launched the first edition of its Internship Programme in 2022. The internship policy aims to take foreign policy closer to the people; bring in more focus on MEA; provide value to the interns; ensure better gender inclusivity and increase diversity in terms of qualifications, domicile, and socio-economic status in the cohort of interns engaged by the MEA. During the course of the internship, the Interns would be introduced to various aspects of the functioning of the Ministry, its attached offices, the public interface of the Ministry and its role in helping Indian citizens, as well as a possible visit one of the Missions abroad, subject to prevailing conditions. BenefitsAn honorarium of 10,000 per month will be paid to each intern to defray basic costs. Introduction to the various aspects of the functioning of the MEA, its attached offices, the public interface of the Ministry, and its role in helping the Indian citizens.Possible visit one of the Missions abroad, subject to prevailing conditions. Cost of one-time to and fro air travel subject to a ceiling of the prevailing economy class airfare between the State capital and Delhi, from the domicile State or from the college/university of the selected candidates will be provided. The interns would be responsible for their boarding and lodging in Delhi during the period of their internship. Interns will be assigned specific topics of work by the concerned Head of the Division (HOD) and may be required to conduct research, write reports, analyze evolving developments, or carry out any other task entrusted to them by the HOD.A total of 75 internships will be offered in a year in a single term of three months from April to June.Eligibility1. The internship shall generally be open to Indian citizens with a minimum educational qualification of a graduate degree from a recognized university at the time of applying.2. The internship shall also be open to student who is presently in the final year of their graduation, where an internship is a mandatory part of the final year curriculum. 3. The age of the candidate should not exceed 25 years as on 31 December of the year of internship. Note 1: Diversity: In line with the goal of taking the Ministry and foreign policy closer to the people from all parts of the country, the policy aims to ensure increased diversity amongst the group of interns with respect to gender, underprivileged sections, geographical domicile, and representation from both urban and rural areas. Note 2: Priority: Candidates from districts under the Transformation of Aspirational Districts Programme (TADP) and those belonging to SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories shall be given priority at different stages in the selection process. Application ProcessOnlineRegistration ProcessStep 1: Visit https://internship.mea.gov.in/registration Step 2: Register by providing your Full Name, Gender, Email ID, and Password. Now, Confirm the password and fill in the captcha code. Click "Submit".Step 3: You will receive a verification link (with the subject line "Internship Portal Registration") from egov.egit@mea.gov.in. In the email, click "Activate Account" to verify your Email ID. *** Application ProcessStep 1: Visit https://internship.mea.gov.in/dashboard and click the "Apply for Internship" icon provided at the middle of the page.Step 2: You will be directed to https://internship.mea.gov.in/applicationForm/1/ In the application form, provide all the mandatory details: Personal, Educational, and Internship Details. Upload the mandatory documents. Step 3: Click on "Final Preview" to preview your application and make any changes. Finally, click on "Submit" to submit your application. Note: All selected interns will be required to join the Ministry on the same day in April 2022. Each intern will be engaged for a minimum period of one month and a maximum period of three months. *** Selection ProcessStep 1: The selection process will consist of two stages viz. Preliminary Screening and Personal Interview. Weightage will be based on academic performance assessed by the percentage of marks obtained in +2 and graduation exams. Step 3: State-wise merit lists will be prepared separately for male and female candidates by elimination based on academic performance in +2 and graduation exams. Priority will be given to applicants from TADP districts during the Preliminary Screening stage and to applicants belonging to SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories in the Personal Interview stage. Step 4: Candidates selected in the merit lists will be called for a personal interview to be conducted by video conferencing. Step 5: A maximum of 75 candidates will be selected from the interview process and offered internships. If any selected candidate opts out, the next candidate in the merit list from the individual state will be offered the opportunity. Note 1: The selection process will follow a quota cum weightage system. There may be 2 interns from each of the 28 States; 2 interns from each of the 8 Union Territories and 3 more interns with maximum marks from TADP districts / underprivileged sections of the society. A minimum of 30% of the 75 internships may be filled by women candidates. Note 2: The total number of candidates called for interviews will be three times the number of interns to be engaged in each term. *** Documents Required1. Aadhaar Number2. Proof of Identity3. Proof of Address4. Proof of Age/DOB (Class 10th/12th Marksheet)5. Proof of Current Educational Qualification6. Bank Details (for the payment of stipend) At the time of joining on selection, the applicant shall be required to submit:1. A letter from their Head of Institution/Head of Department/ Principal, indicating their status in the Institution.2. No Objection Certificate (NOC) from their Head of Institution/Head of Department/ Principal, allowing the student to undergo the Internship program for the proposed period. At the end of the internship, each intern shall submit a detailed report on the work carried out and, if required, make a presentation on it. Frequently Asked QuestionsIn which year was the MEA Internship Programme started?The Ministry of External Affairs of the Govt. of India launched the first edition of its Internship Programme in 2022.What are the objectives of this Internship Programme?The MEA Internship Policy 2022 aims to take foreign policy closer to the people; bring in more focus on MEA; provide value to the interns; ensure better gender inclusivity and increase diversity in terms of qualifications, domicile, and socio-economic status in the cohort of interns engaged by the Ministry. What shall be the Obligations Of The Intern?The Obligations Of The Intern shall be as described below: 1. The internship program provides an introduction to the process of formulation of foreign policy and its implementation by the Government of India. Interns will be assigned specific topics of work by the concerned Head of the Division (HOD) and may be required to conduct research, write reports, analyze evolving developments or carry out any other task entrusted to them by the HOD. 2. At the end of the internship, each intern shall submit a detailed report on the work carried out and, if required, make a presentation on it. The outcome of the study during the internship will remain as intellectual property of the Ministry of External Affairs and interns shall not use it without prior approval of the Ministry. The intern shall maintain full confidentiality of any information relating to the Ministry of External Affairs. Under what circumstances can the internship be terminated?Termination Of Internship 1. Selection To The Internship Programme At The Ministry Of External Affairs Is Strictly Subject To Necessary Security Clearances. 2. The Ministry May Terminate The Engagement Of An Intern At Any Point In Time As It Deems Fit, Without Giving Any Reason. 3. Decision Of The Ministry Shall Be Final In This Regard. An Intern Can Choose To Terminate The Internship by Giving Prior Notice Of One Week To The Ministry.Will the interns be provided any weekly/monthlystipend/honorarium during the course of the internship?An honorarium of INR 10,000 per month will be paid to each intern to defray basic costs.Is there a provision of providing airfare to the interns?Yes, the Cost Of One-Time To And Fro Air Travel Subject To A Ceiling Of The Prevailing Economy Class Airfare Between The State Capital And Delhi, From The Domicile State Or From The College/University Of The Selected Candidates Will Be Provided. The Interns Would Be Responsible For Their Boarding And Lodging In Delhi During The Period Of Their Internship. Will the interns be allowed to Visit One Of The Missions Abroad?Yes, a visit to one of the Missions abroad will be possible, subject to the prevailing conditions. What shall be the assignments of the interns? Interns will be assigned specific topics of work by the concerned Head of the Division (HOD) and may be required to conduct research, write reports, analyze evolving developments, or carry out any other task entrusted to them by the HOD.How many Internships are Offered In A Year?A total of 75 internships will be offered in a year in a single term of three months from April to June.Is there a Minimum Educational Qualification in order to be eligible to apply to the internship?The internship shall generally be open to Indian citizens with a minimum educational qualification of a graduate degree from a recognized university at the time of applying.Is there an age limit In Order To Be Eligible To Apply To The Internship?Yes, The age of the candidate should not exceed 25 years as on 31 December of the year of internship.Are there any sections of the society that Shall Be Given Priority in the selection process?Yes, the candidates from districts under the Transformation of Aspirational Districts Programme (TADP) and those belonging to SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories shall be given priority at different stages in the selection process.How is diversity ensured among the group of the selected interns?In line with the goal of taking the Ministry and foreign policy closer to the people from all parts of the country, the policy aims to ensure increased diversity amongst the group of interns with respect to gender, underprivileged sections, geographical domicile, and representation from both urban and rural areas. Is there a limit to the number of candidates to be Called For Interviews? Yes, The total number of candidates called for interviews will be three times the number of interns to be engaged in each term.What shall be the procedure in case a Selected Candidate Opts Out?If any selected candidate opts out, the next candidate in the merit list from the individual state will be offered the opportunity. Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of External AffairsInternship Programme By The Ministry Of External AffairsInternshipDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe Ministry of External Affairs of the Govt. of India launched the first edition of its Internship Programme in 2022. The internship policy aims to take foreign policy closer to the people; bring in more focus on MEA; provide value to the interns; ensure better gender inclusivity and increase diversity in terms of qualifications, domicile, and socio-economic status in the cohort of interns engaged by the MEA. During the course of the internship, the Interns would be introduced to various aspects of the functioning of the Ministry, its attached offices, the public interface of the Ministry and its role in helping Indian citizens, as well as a possible visit one of the Missions abroad, subject to prevailing conditions. OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1