Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of FinancePradhan Mantri Jan Dhan YojanaBankChota KhataInsuranceJan DhanDetailsA National Mission for Financial Inclusion (NMFI), namely, Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) was launched across the Country in August, 2014 by the Prime Minister with the idea to ensure that citizens envisage their financial activities. PMJDY provides universal banking services for every unbanked household, based on the guiding principles of banking the unbanked, securing the unsecured, funding the unfunded and serving unserved and underserved areas. In order to give impetus to financial inclusion initiatives of the Government, PMJDY scheme was extended beyond 14.08.2018 with the focus on opening of accounts shifting from every household to every unbanked adult . The scheme has been made more attractive with upward revision in (i) OD limit from Rs. 5,000/- to Rs. 10,000/- and (ii) Accidental insurance cover on RuPay card holders from Rs.1 lakh to Rs.2 lakhs. PMJDY has been successful in increasing banking penetration and promoting financial inclusion across the country. The scheme has ensured access to various financial services like availability of basic savings bank account, access to need based credit, remittances facility, insurance and pension to the excluded sections i.e. weaker sections & low-income groups.BenefitsBasic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA)Any Indian citizen eligible to open a regular bank account can open a BSBDA. Such an account does not require any minimum balance maintenance. The account holders can use both bank branches, ATMs and Banking Correspondents (BCs) for depositing and withdrawing cash. However, one cannot withdraw cash more than four times a month.Small Account/Chota KhataUnder Jan Dhan Yojana, people can open small bank accounts without presenting legal documents. These accounts would be valid normally for a period of twelve months. Thereafter, such accounts would be allowed to a continue for a further period of twelve more months, if the account- holder provides a document showing that he/she has applied for any of the Officially Valid Document, within 12 months of opening the small account.RuPay Debit Card with inbuilt accident insuranceUnder PMJDY, a free Rupay debit card, with inbuilt accident insurance cover of Rs.2 lakhs (Rs 1 lakh for accounts opened before 28.08.2018), is issued to all beneficiaries. Overdraft FacilityUnder PMJDY, beneficiaries can avail OD facility upto Rs. 10,000/-.Business Correspondents (BCs)/Bank Mitras BCs/Bank Mitras are retail agents engaged by banks for providing banking services at locations other than a bank branch/ATM. It is mainly meant for the rural areas, where bank branches are far-flung. BCs/Bank Mitras connect with the residents and guide them with banking solutions such as savings accounts, deposits, payments and withdrawals, mini account statements, etc. Banks with their strong network of BCs/Bank Mitras are providing hassle free services to the customers in remote / rural areas. EligibilityThe applicant should be an Indian National.If minors above ten years apply, they will require support from their legal guardians for administering their PMJDY account.Application ProcessOfflineStep 1- Go to the official portal of PMJDY.Step 2- Under the "e-documents" section, you will find live links for "Account Opening Form". Applicants can access this in both English and Hindi languages. Click on the appropriate language option.Step 3- This will open the form in PDF format. Download it and get a printout.Step 4- Fill the form manually with all your bank and personal data, including bank branch, name of town/village, block/district, Aadhaar number, profession, annual income, details of Kisan credit card, and others.Step 5- Once you fill it out, visit your nearest bank branch and submit it.While submitting the form, you will need to produce certain documents along with your Mobile number or email Id to qualify for the Jan Dhan Yojana.Documents Required1. AADHAAR2. Government ID proofs (Voter Card/PAN Card/Ration card)3. Permanent Address proof (Passport/Driving License/Electricity Bill/Telephone Bill/Water Bill)4. Passport size photograph5. Filled and Signed PMJDY Account opening form6. Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator. Frequently Asked QuestionsCan I Open A Joint Account Under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana? Yes. You can open a joint account under Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana.Where Do I Open A Bank Account Under PMJDY? You can open a PMJDY account at any bank branch on Core Banking Solutions (CBS) or at a BC outlet of such Banks. Can I Link My Mobile Number With My Bank Account Opened Under PMJDY? Yes. You can link your mobile number with your bank account. You can do so by contacting your bank where you have opened your bank account under PMJDY. Bank will enter your mobile number in the CBS system based on the information provided by you. What Is A Small Account or Chota Khata under PMJDY ?A Small Account or Chota Account can be opened in case of non availability of Officially Valid Documents (OVDs). These accounts would be valid normally for a period of twelve months. Thereafter, such accounts would be allowed to a continue for a further period of twelve more months, if the account-holder provides a document showing that he/she has applied for any of the Officially Valid Document, within 12 months of opening the small account. Does The PMJDY Scheme Offer Accidental Insurance Cover ? All PMJDY Accounts are provided with a free Rupay Debit Card with inbuilt accidental insurance cover of Rs.2 lakh (Rs 1 lakh for accounts opened before 28.08.2018). Is Overdraft/Loan Facility Available Under PMJDY?Overdraft facility (SBOD) upto Rs. 10,000/- will be available to one account holder of PMJDY per household after 6 months of satisfactory conduct of the account, subject to fulfilment of eligibility criteria. Is It Possible To Extend My Loan Amount Taken Against My PMJDY Bank Account?Yes, it is possible to extend your loan/overdraft taken against your PMJDY Bank Account. Bank may increase this amount, provided you make your repayments on time subject to a maximum amount of Rs. 10,000/-.How Much Processing Fees Do I Need To Pay For Processing The Loan Against My Account? There is no processing fees.What About Mobile Banking Facility? Does My Account Opened Under The PMJDY Scheme Provide Mobile Banking? Yes.Is A Minor Eligible To Open A Bank Account Under PMJDY? Yes. A minor is eligible to open a bank account under PMJDY under guardianship. Are Minors Eligible To Receive RuPay Cards Offered Under PMJDY Bank Accounts? Yes. Minors are eligible to get RuPay Cards. They can use the card 4 times in a month for cash withdrawal. What Are The Documents Required For Opening A Bank Account Under PMJDY? The following documents are required - 1. AADHAAR 2. Government ID proofs (Voter Card/PAN Card/Ration card) 3. Permanent Address proof (Passport/Driving License/Electricity Bill/Telephone Bill/Water Bill) 4. Passport size photograph 5. Filled and Signed PMJDY Account opening form 6. Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator. What If I Don't' Have A Valid Residential Proof? Will I Be Able To Open A Bank Account Under PMJDY?Yes. You can still open a bank account. What you have to do is to provide an identity proof issued by the Government of India.Can A RuPay Card Be Availed By Illiterate Account Holders? Yes. It can be availed by illiterate account holders as well. RuPay Card is a kind of debit card issued for the purpose of ATM withdrawal and making PoS payments. The concerned bank officials will educate the illiterate RuPay Card holders as to how to use this card and keep it safe at the time of card issuance. Will I Get A Cheque Book Against My Bank Account?The accounts can be opened under PMJDY with Zero balance. Cheque book(s) are not a mandatory feature of PMJDY A/cs. Banks can offer additional services including Cheque Books as per the norms specified by each Bank. One can avail the same by meeting the criteria. How Much Interest Do I Receive On My Savings Account Opened Under PMJDY? The applicable rate of interest is equal to interest on saving account. Do Banks Charge Account Opening Fees For Opening An Account Under PMJDY? Banks do not charge any fees while opening PMJDY account. Is The Bank Account Opened Under PMJDY Transferrable? What If I Want To Transfer My Account from One City To Another Or One State To Other? Yes. You can easily transfer your PMJDY account from one city/state to another as all banks offering bank accounts have core banking solutions (intra-bank). You can do this by simply requesting the bank. What Is a Bank Mitr?Bank Mitr is a Business Correspondent who provides banking services at select locations. The Bank Mitr represents the bank and helps it expand its outreach. He offers banking services at areas where establishing a brick and mortar branch is not feasible. Retired Bank Employees, Retired Teachers, Retired Government Employees and Ex-Servicemen can join as a Bank Mitr. What Minimum Balance Do I Need To Put In My Bank Account? There is no requirement of minimum balance . What Is a PoS Machine? It is a small device installed at business centres to help you enjoy cashless purchases. PoS stands for Point of Sale.I Am An Existing PMJDY Customer Of A Particular Bank And I Want To Open Another Bank Account Under PMJDY, Am I Eligible? No. A person can have only one PMJDY Account . However, if he/she wants to open a Basic Saving Bank Account or a PMJDY Account in other bank, the existing Account will have to be closed within 30 days of opening an Account in the other bank. What Is The Exit Age Determined By This Scheme? There is no exit age under this Scheme. What If I Don't Have Any Documents? How Will I Open An Account Then? Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its Press Release dated 26.08.2014 has clarified as under : Those persons who do not have any of the officially valid documents can open Small Accounts with banks branch . A Small Account can be opened on the basis of a self-attested photograph and putting his/her signatures or thumb print in the presence of an official(s) of the bank. Such accounts have limitations regarding : i. aggregate credits (not more than Rupees one lac in a year), ii. aggregate withdrawals (not more than Rupees ten thousand in a month), and iii. balance in the accounts (not more than Rupees fifty thousand at any point of time). These accounts would be valid normally for a period of twelve months. Thereafter, such accounts would be allowed to a continue for a further period of twelve more months, if the account-holder provides a document showing that he/she has applied for any of the Officially Valid Document, within 12 months of opening the small account. Can I Change My Address In The Bank Account? Yes. You can change your address by providing a self- declaration certificate or submitting supporting documents.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesOfficial WebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of FinancePradhan Mantri Jan Dhan YojanaBankChota KhataInsuranceJan DhanDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsA National Mission for Financial Inclusion (NMFI), namely, Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) was launched across the Country in August, 2014 by the Prime Minister with the idea to ensure that citizens envisage their financial activities. PMJDY provides universal banking services for every unbanked household, based on the guiding principles of banking the unbanked, securing the unsecured, funding the unfunded and serving unserved and underserved areas. In order to give impetus to financial inclusion initiatives of the Government, PMJDY scheme was extended beyond 14.08.2018 with the focus on opening of accounts shifting from every household to every unbanked adult . The scheme has been made more attractive with upward revision in (i) OD limit from Rs. 5,000/- to Rs. 10,000/- and (ii) Accidental insurance cover on RuPay card holders from Rs.1 lakh to Rs.2 lakhs. PMJDY has been successful in increasing banking penetration and promoting financial inclusion across the country. The scheme has ensured access to various financial services like availability of basic savings bank account, access to need based credit, remittances facility, insurance and pension to the excluded sections i.e. weaker sections & low-income groups.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1