Prathibha Scholarship Programme OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In KeralaPrathibha Scholarship ProgrammeInternshipPostgraduateScholarshipStudentUndergraduateDetailsScholarships are awarded to students of Kerala origin who have qualified meritoriously in the Higher Secondary Examination, for pursuing Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree courses in Basic/ Natural Science in Institutions/ Universities in India. The objective of the programme is to motivate aspiring students to higher studies and a career in Science. Prathibha Scholarship Programme is aimed at motivating bright Students to higher studies in Science by awarding Scholarships. Prathibha Scholars are also provided opportunities to attend Science Orientation Programmes and interact with pioneers in Science through the Student Programme for Excellence in Experimental Design (SPEED) scheme. Students are selected for Prathibha Scholarship at Under-graduate level based on the marks obtained by them for all Science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination. The applicants should have secured admission for 3-year U.G/5-year Integrated P.G programme in Basic/Natural Sciences. Scholarship is applicable for maximum 5 years including U.G and P.G courses/Integrated P.G course subject to renewal norms as per guidelines.Benefits1. Scholarship is awarded for studies in Basic / Natural Sciences.2. The selected students are eligible for scholarship as follows.(a) U.G. Course/ First 3 years of Integrated P.G. Course:1st Year - 12,000/-2nd Year - 18,000/-3rd Year - 24,000/-(b) P.G. Course (subject to scoring minimum 75% marks for Undergraduate course)1st Year/ 4th Year of Integrated P.G. Course - 40,000/-2nd Year/ 5th Year of Integrated P.G. Course - 60,000/- 3. Offers opportunities for attending Science Enrichment Programmes and summer internships in reputed National and State level R&D institutions in Kerala.4. Eight Prathibha Scholars (two scholars in each of the disciplines- Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics) are eligible to be considered for summer programmes at IISER-Trivandrum. The selection of Prathibha Scholars for summer programmes is subject to the norms of IISER- Trivandrum.EligibilityApplicant should be of Kerala origin.Applicant should have qualified Higher Secondary Examination from Kerala.Applicant should have qualified Higher Secondary Board Examination with minimum 90% marks or equivalent grade for all subjects put together and minimum 90% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects put together. (For SC/ST reservation category, the eligibility is stipulated to minimum marks of 80% or equivalent grade for all subjects in total and minimum 80% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects in total).Applicant should have secured admission for 3 year B.Sc. / 5 year Integrated M.Sc. / 5 year Integrated BS-MS course in Basic or Natural Science (23 subjects enlisted in the guidelines ) in any of the Institutions or Universities in India.Note 01: Students are selected at Undergraduate level only.Note 02: Selection is based on the aggregate marks obtained for all science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination.Note 03: Those who have availed Prathibha Scholarship for all 3 years of Undergraduate Course and have qualified Degree Course with minimum 75% marks are eligible to continue the scholarship for Postgraduate course.Note 04: The scheme ensures at least 50% of the selection for girl students. 10% of the selection is reserved for SC/ST students.Note 05: Scholarships are allotted with the weightage of 30% for mathematical science, 40% for Physical Science and 30 % for Life Sciences based on the subject main chosen for the Degree course. Students in Triple-main courses are ranked in all three subject areas and are selected based on their top ranking position.Application ProcessOnlineOnline Registration:Step 01: Applicant should Register Online before the stipulated date as per the notification issued by KSCSTE.Step 02: Applicant should ensure the following before commencement of Online Registration.i. A valid Mobile number and E-mail ID accessible to him/her during the entire stage of selection process.ii. A recent passport size photograph image of dimension 150W 200H pixels.Step 03: Applicant should enter their Name, Date of Birth, E-mail ID and HSE Roll Number to commence online registration.Step 04: Applicant should enter the OTP received through mobile and should enter a password of minimum 6 characters to continue registration.Step 05: An Application number will be generated on successful registration. This number and the chosen password will be sent to the registered mobile number of the applicant, which should be used for future login.Application Process:Step 01: Application for Prathibha scholarship is accepted only through online submission and students should apply through Prathibha scholarship Web Portal.Step 02: On the basis of application submitted by the applicant, the Kerala State Council For Science, Technology And Environment (KSCSTE) will prepare the Provisional Selection List (PSL).Step 03: On publication of PRL by KSCSTE, the selected students in the main PRL should upload relevant documents in the Prathibha scholarship web portal for confirmation of scholarship and final selection.Step 04: The final Rank List will be prepared after verification of documents.Selection Procedure:Step 01: Ranking is made based on the aggregate marks secured in Higher Secondary Board Examination for all four Science subjects.Step 02: Eligible applicants are grouped under the three Broad Subject Groups viz., Mathematical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Life Sciences, based on the subject chosen as Main for the Degree Course.Step 03: Applicants studying for Triple-main subjects for their U.G/Integrated P.G course have to opt the subject category to be considered for ranking. Once the application is submitted for consideration under a particular Subject-category, the option cannot be changed.Step 04: Applicants under each Subject-category are ranked separately and the total number of scholarships are proportioned with 30% for Mathematical Sciences, 40% for Physical Sciences and 30% for Life Sciences category. 10% of the total seats are set apart for SC/ST students.Step 05: Tie on Science-total marks if any, is resolved by prioritizing the marks obtained for science subjects in the following orderi. Mathematical Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Overall marksii. Physical Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Biology, Overall marksiii. Life Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Biology, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Overall marks.Note 01: The Provisional Rank List will be published in KSCSTE website www.kscste.kerala.gov.in usually during March/April.Note 02: Only those who submit the above documents within the stipulated time (as published in the website) will be considered for final ranking. Final Rank List (FRL) will be prepared upon verification of documents as per approved guidelines.Contact Details:The Head,Women Scientist Division (WSD)Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment,Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram 4Tel No. + 91- 471-2548208, Fax : 0471 2540085, 2534605E-mail: wsd1kscste@gmail.comDocuments RequiredIdentity proof of applicantPassport size photographsStudent Data-sheet, duly signed by the applicant and endorsed by the Head of the Institution where they are admitted for Degree Course.Copy of Mark list of Higher Secondary Board Examination- self attestedCommunity Certificate for SC/ST applicants.Certificate in proof of Place of Origin [Applicant should be of Kerala origin]"Terms & Conditions , duly signedE- payment form- in prescribed formatFrequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the aim of this programme?Prathibha Scholarship Programme is aimed at motivating bright Students to higher studies in Science by awarding Scholarships.What is the objective of the programme?The objective of the programme is to motivate aspiring students to higher studies and a career in Science.Who is eligible to get the benefits under the programme?Students of Kerala origin who have scored minimum 90% marks [80% for SC/ST]or equivalent grade in Higher Secondary Examination from Kerala (both in Overall and Science Subjects total) and secured admission for a 3-year U.G/5-year Integrated P.G. programme in the current academic year in any one of the following 23 subjects either as Major/Honours or their combination anywhere in India.For how many years will the scholarship be given under the programme?Scholarship is applicable for maximum 5 years including U.G and P.G courses/Integrated P.G course subject to renewal norms as per guidelines.What is the maximum grant amount and duration of scholarship?Annual scholarship @ 12,000/-, 18,000/-, 24,000/- respectively for 1st, 2nd and 3rd years at U.G. level and @ 40,000/- & 60,000/- respectively for 1st and 2nd years at P.G. level.What is the minimum educational qualification required under the programme?Applicant should have qualified Higher Secondary Board Examination with a minimum of 90% marks or equivalent grade for all subjects put together and a minimum of 90% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects put together. (For the SC/ST reservation category, the eligibility is stipulated to minimum marks of 80% or equivalent grade for all subjects in total and a minimum of 80% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects in total).Is this scheme only for a resident of Kerala?Yes, the applicant should be of Kerala origin.What is the criterion of selection of an applicant under the programme? Selection is based on the aggregate marks obtained for all science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination.Who is eligible to continue the scholarship for Postgraduate course?Those students who have availed Prathibha Scholarship for all 3 years of the Undergraduate Course and have qualified Degree Course with a minimum of 75% marks are eligible to continue the scholarship for the Postgraduate course.Is there any reservation for SC/ST students?Yes, 10% of the selection is reserved for SC/ST students.How many scholars will be selected for summer programmes at IISER-Trivandrum?Eight Prathibha Scholars (two scholars in each of the disciplines- Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics) are eligible to be considered for summer programmes at IISER-Trivandrum. When can an applicant apply under the programme?Application can be submitted in response to KSCSTE notification issued every year normally during January/February.How can an applicant apply under the programme?Application for Prathibha scholarship is accepted only through online submission. Students should apply through Prathibha scholarship web portal, based on which KSCSTE will prepare the Provisional Selection List (PSL). On publication of PSL by KSCSTE, the selected students should submit the required documents (both in hard & soft copies) for confirmation of scholarship and final selection. The final Rank List (FRL) will be prepared after verification of documents.What is the social relevance and tangible output of the programme?The scheme focuses on motivating a core group of bright students including girls to Basic Sciences and research. This will help to attract more human resources in Basic Sciences and also will add to the efforts of the State on women empowerment in Science and Technology.When will the 1st installment of the Scholarship be released?On publication of FRL and receipt of Bank account details, KSCSTE will issue sanction order for release of 1st instalment of scholarship to the students on yearly basis. The scholarship will be credited to the bank account of the students through National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT).Sources And ReferencesOfficial WebsiteScheme GuidelineTerms & ConditionsConfirmation Data SheetInstruction For Scholarship RenewalInstruction For Continuation Of ScholarshipLogin PortalOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In KeralaPrathibha Scholarship ProgrammeInternshipPostgraduateScholarshipStudentUndergraduateDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsScholarships are awarded to students of Kerala origin who have qualified meritoriously in the Higher Secondary Examination, for pursuing Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree courses in Basic/ Natural Science in Institutions/ Universities in India. The objective of the programme is to motivate aspiring students to higher studies and a career in Science. Prathibha Scholarship Programme is aimed at motivating bright Students to higher studies in Science by awarding Scholarships. Prathibha Scholars are also provided opportunities to attend Science Orientation Programmes and interact with pioneers in Science through the Student Programme for Excellence in Experimental Design (SPEED) scheme. Students are selected for Prathibha Scholarship at Under-graduate level based on the marks obtained by them for all Science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination. The applicants should have secured admission for 3-year U.G/5-year Integrated P.G programme in Basic/Natural Sciences. Scholarship is applicable for maximum 5 years including U.G and P.G courses/Integrated P.G course subject to renewal norms as per guidelines.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1