Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship For Scheduled Caste Candidates OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of EducationRajiv Gandhi National Fellowship For Scheduled Caste CandidatesFellowshipScheduled CasteDetailsINTRODUCTIONThe Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF) Scheme for Scheduled Caste is formulated and funded by the Ministry of Social Justice &Empowerment. The scheme is open to candidates who belong to Scheduled Caste and are pursuing higher studies such as regular and full-time M.Phil.and Ph.D.degrees in Sciences, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Engineering & Technology. There are 2000 slots for Scheduled Caste every year for all the subjects. 3% fellowships are reserved for Persons with Disabilities candidates belonging to SC categories as per the provision laid down by the Government of India. OBJECTIVEThe objective of the scheme is to provide five-year fellowships in the form of financial assistance to students from SC categories, as notified by the Central Government to pursue higher studies such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. at Indian Universities/Institutions/Colleges as indicated below: i. Universities/Institutions/Colleges included under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act.ii. Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 and eligible to receive grants-in-aid from UGC.iii. Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/State Government iv. Institutes of National Importance. BenefitsDURATION OF FELLOWSHIP Name of the Course: M.Phil. Maximum Duration: 2 years or submission of dissertation whichever is earlierAdmissibility of JRF: 2 years; Admissibility of SRF: Nil Name of the Course: M.Phil./Ph.D. Maximum Duration: 5 years from the commencement of fellowship or submission of Ph.D. thesis whichever is earlierAdmissibility of JRF: 2 years; Admissibility of SRF: Remaining 3 years Name of the Course: Ph.D. Maximum Duration: 5 years or submission of Ph.D. thesis whichever is earlierAdmissibility of JRF: 2 years; Admissibility of SRF: Remaining 3 years AMOUNT OF FELLOWSHIP The rate of fellowship for JRF and SRF will be at par with the UGC Fellowship as amended from time to time. Presently these rates are as follows - Fellowship (Sciences, Humanities, and Social Sciences)@Rs. 25,000/-p.m. initial two years for JRF@Rs.28,000/- p.m. for remaining tenure for SRF Contingency (Humanities & Social Sciences)@Rs.10,000/-p.a. for an initial two years (JRF)@Rs.20,500/-p.a. for remaining tenure (SRF) Contingency (Science, Engg. & Technology)@Rs.12,000/- p.a. initial two-year (JRF)@Rs.25,000/-p.a. for remaining tenure (SRF) Escorts/Reader Assistance (All Subjects)@Rs.2,000/- p.m. in case of physically handicapped & blind candidates. HRA As per Govt. of India norms (All Subjects) HOUSE RENT ALLOWANCE 1. Suitable single-seated hostel accommodation may be provided to the candidates in the institutions. In such cases, the fellow is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal. HRA is not permissible for those candidates who are staying in Hostel accommodation. 2. In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the fellow may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the fellow on actual basis may be reimbursed subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms. 3. If the fellow makes her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Govt. of India. Note: In all the above cases, the fellow will submit a relevant certificate (Annexure-VI) through the concerned University/College/Institute to the identified Agency for settling the claim. MEDICALNo separate /fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the fellow may avail of the medical facilities available in the University/Institution/College. LEAVEi. Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to the public holidays that may be taken by the candidate. However, they are not entitled to any other vacation, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations.ii. Candidates are eligible for maternity/ paternity to leave at full rates of the fellowship as per Govt. of India rules once during the tenure of the award.iii. Academic Leave: The Fellow may be allowed academic leave (without fellowship and other emoluments) for a period not exceeding one year during the tenure of award for academic/teaching assignment /foreign visit in connection with research work. iv. The expenditure on travel cannot be claimed from UGC. The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure. v. If the awardee wishes to apply for any other fellowship/paid assignment/examination conducted by a public body during the tenure of the fellowship, he/ she is not required to obtain NOC from UGC. In case of selection, the candidate would be required to tender their resignation from the Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship. Note: All kinds of leave shall be approved by the University/Institute/College. EligibilityTARGET GROUPThe candidates belonging to one of the SC categories who have passed the post-graduation examination in the concerned subject and who are pursuing full-time research without JRF of UGC- NET or UGC-CSIR NET. ELIGIBILITYA candidate has to fulfill the following conditions to be eligible for the award of this fellowship:i. The candidate should belong to SC/ST and should have passed the Post Graduate Examination.ii. The Candidate must be registered for M.Phil./Ph.D.iii. Transgender candidates are eligible to apply under the scheme. The reservation shall be followed as per the government of India normsApplication ProcessOnlineThe applications are invited through online mode once in a year through advertisements in leading newspapers and Employment News from, the candidate belonging to the SC category fulfilling the eligibility conditions under the scheme. A short notification will also be uploaded on the UGC website www.ugc.ac.in incomplete applications will not be placed before the Expert Committee. Candidates have to apply strictly as per instructions given in the online application portal e- SARTS: http://www.ugc.ac.in/ugc_schemes/ Documents Required1. Passport Size Photograph2. Aadhaar Number3. Bonafide Certificate4. Caste Certificate5. Proof of Identity6. Proof of Age7. Proof of Address8. Proof reg. the Educational Qualifications The awardee is also required to submit the following documents to the designated branch of the UGC designated Bank at the stipulated period interval. The approved Agency may verify the genuineness of records before the disbursal of funds. At the end of every three months, the fellow shall submit a 'Continuation Certificate' in the prescribed proforma. Annexure-II. This will make the awardee eligible to draw the fellowship for the next three months. After completion of one year of the award of fellowship, the concerned fellow/awardee shall submit and present its Yearly Progress Report in the proforma prescribed by the UGC as given in Annexure-III.The Fellow/awardee shall also submit and present accounts of contingency grants in the proforma prescribed by the UGC as given in Annexure-IV.Fellow/awardee shall submit and present its HRA Certificate in the prescribed proforma Annexure-V. Note: The approved Agency may verify the genuineness of records before the disbursal of fundsFrequently Asked QuestionsWhat Are The Objectives Of RGNF?The objective of the scheme is to provide five-year fellowships in the form of financial assistance to students from SC categories, as notified by the Central Government to pursue higher studies such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. at Indian Universities/Institutions/Colleges as indicated below: i. Universities/Institutions/Colleges included under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act. ii. Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 and eligible to receive grants-in-aid from UGC. iii. Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/State Government iv. Institutes of National Importance.Which Ministry Formulated RGNF?The Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF) Scheme for Scheduled Caste is formulated and funded by the Ministry of Social Justice &Empowerment.How Many Slots Are There In This Fellowship?There are 2000 slots for Scheduled Caste every year for all the subjects: Sciences, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Engineering & Technology.Is There An Earmarking For Persons With Disabilities? Yes, 3% of fellowships are reserved for Persons with Disabilities candidates belonging to SC categories as per the provision laid down by the Government of India.How Are The Applications Invited For This Scheme?The applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers and Employment News.On What Grounds Can The Tenure Of The Candidate Be Extended?If the research work is found satisfactory, his/her tenure will be extended further for a period of five years under the enhanced emoluments of the Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship SC. What Is The Tenure Of The Fellowship Under The RGNF-SC Scheme?The tenure of the fellowship is initially for five years under the RGNF-SC Scheme.How Is The Distribution Of The Fellowship Performed?I. The total number of fellowships each year will be 2000. ii. In case the numbers of candidates exceed the number of available slots, UGC will select the candidates for the fellowship based on the percentage of marks obtained by them in their qualifying Post Graduation examination. iii. The reservation for differently abled students shall be made as per UGC norms and in a horizontal manner. iv. Scholars will be selected under the scheme in all domains of knowledge.Can Transgender Candidates Apply Under This Scheme?Yes, Transgender candidates are eligible to apply under the scheme. The reservation shall be followed as per government of India norms.What Will Happen If The Work Of The Candidate For The First Two Years Is Not Found Satisfactory?In case the work for the first two years is not found satisfactory, an additional year will be given to him/her for improvement. However, during this period he/she will be designated as Rajiv Gandhi National Junior Fellow. In such cases work will be evaluated again before the third year of the tenure, and if improvement is found the Fellow will get two more years of RGNF at enhanced rates (SRF). In case the candidate is not considered suitable for upgradation, the fellowship for the remaining tenure will be at JRF rates.Is Medical Assistance Provided Under This Scheme?No separate /fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the fellow may avail of the medical facilities available in the University/Institution/College.What Is Meant By "Academic Leave"?Academic Leave: The Fellow may be allowed academic leave (without fellowship and other emoluments) for a period not exceeding one year during the tenure of award for academic/teaching assignment /foreign visit in connection with research work.Can The Expenditure On Travel Be Claimed From UGC?The expenditure on travel cannot be claimed from UGC. The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure.What If The Awardee Wishes To Apply For Any Other Fellowship/Paid Assignment/Examination Conducted By A Public Body During The Tenure Of The Fellowship?If the awardee wishes to apply for any other fellowship/paid assignment/examination conducted by a public body during the tenure of the fellowship, he/ she is not required to obtain NOC from UGC. In case of selection, the candidate would be required to tender their resignation from the Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship.Are The Candidates Eligible For Maternity/Paternity Leave?Yes, Candidates are eligible for maternity/ paternity leave at full rates of the fellowship as per Govt. of India rules once during the tenure of the award.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of EducationRajiv Gandhi National Fellowship For Scheduled Caste CandidatesFellowshipScheduled CasteDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsINTRODUCTIONThe Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF) Scheme for Scheduled Caste is formulated and funded by the Ministry of Social Justice &Empowerment. The scheme is open to candidates who belong to Scheduled Caste and are pursuing higher studies such as regular and full-time M.Phil.and Ph.D.degrees in Sciences, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Engineering & Technology. There are 2000 slots for Scheduled Caste every year for all the subjects. 3% fellowships are reserved for Persons with Disabilities candidates belonging to SC categories as per the provision laid down by the Government of India. OBJECTIVEThe objective of the scheme is to provide five-year fellowships in the form of financial assistance to students from SC categories, as notified by the Central Government to pursue higher studies such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. at Indian Universities/Institutions/Colleges as indicated below: i. Universities/Institutions/Colleges included under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act.ii. Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 and eligible to receive grants-in-aid from UGC.iii. Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/State Government iv. Institutes of National Importance. OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1