Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar Sign InBackDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsSources And ReferencesFeedback OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Youth Affairs & SportsRashtriya Khel Protsahan PuruskarAwardSportsDetailsThe Scheme "Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar" was instituted in the year 2009 by the Department of Sports. There are four categories of awards under the Scheme:(a) Identification and nurturing of budding/young talent(b) Encouragement to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility(c) Employment of sports persons and sports welfare measures(d) Sports for Development OBJECTIVEThe objective of the award is to encourage and promote the involvement of corporates, voluntary organizations, sports control boards, etc., in the promotion and development of sports in the country. Any corporate entity, public or private, sports control boards and non- governmental organizationNG0s) including sports bodies at the state and national level, which have played a visible role in the area of ports promotion and development will be eligible to be considered for Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar.BenefitsThe awards will consist of a citation and a trophy in each of the above-mentioned categories. There will be no cash award. There will be only one award every year for each category of the award. The Awards will be presented to the winners at the function for the presentation of the Award to be held at a place and on a date to be determined by the Government.The Awards will be in addition to any other award, that the corporate entities may have got from other organizations for the same achievements. Note 1: In order to ensure due diligence in the selection of awardees, the Ministry and Sports Authority of India will make necessary verification prior to finalizing the names of the awardees. Note 2: An entity nominated for the Award shall be deemed to have accepted the provisions of the scheme. Note 3: At the time of the ceremony in Rashtrapati Bhavan, the awards will be conferred only on those awardees, who are present. The awards can be received by the Head/CEO of the entity or any other person authorized by the head/CEO. Note 4: No Award will be made for a second time to the same entity for the same category.EligibilityEligibility of the Candidate - 1. Any corporate entity, public or private, sports control boards and non-governmental organizationNGOs including sports bodies at the state and national level, which have played a visible role in the area of sports promotion and development. 2. For the category of 'Identification and nurturing of budding/young talent', the entity should haveidentified and nurtured at least 50 young and budding sportspersons each year during the last three years. 3. For the category of 'Encouragement to sports through corporate social responsibility', the entities should have contributed a minimum of 5% of their gross profit or an amount not less than Rs. 2 crores in the preceding three financial years towards sports promotion and development. Outlays meant purely for commercial purposes will not be counted towards this contribution. Only contributions of non-commercial nature as part of corporate social responsibility will be considered for assessing the contribution made by the corporate concerned, towards the promotion and development of sports in the country. Copies of audited statements of accounts for the last here years should be submitted along with the application. 4. For the category of 'Employment of sportspersons and sports welfare measures', the entity should have recruited at least 50 sportspersons during the last three years. 5. For the category of 'Sports for Development', only non-governmental organizations, which have been working for the promotion and development of sports at least for the last three years would be eligible to apply. Memorandum of Association, Rules & Regulations, Bye-laws, etc under which the applicant NGO has been established and documents indicating the source of funds for its functioning and activities should also be submitted along with the application. Eligibility of the Nominating Agency - 1. All recognized National Sports Federations; Indian Olympic Association; Industry Chambers such as the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), Associated Chamber of Commerce (ASSOCHAM), and confederation of Indian Industries (CII), State Governments; Sports Authority of India and Sports control/Promotion Boards of various Government Organizations such as the All India Police Sports Control Board, Army Sports Control Board, Railway Sports Promotion Board, Services Sports Control Board, Indian Navy Sports Control Board and Air Force Sports Control Board, Petroleum Sports Promotion Board, Ministries/Departments of the Government of India etc. 2. Any corporate entity, public or private, a non-governmental organization including sports bodies at the state or national level, which has made a contribution towards sports promotion and development as per the scheme, can also apply directly to the Government. 3. Notwithstanding the above, Government reserves the right to nominate any corporate entity, public or private, a non-governmental organization including sports bodies at the state and national levels in deserving cases where their nominations have not been received from the agencies mentioned under the Scheme. Note: Canvassing in any form for/by an entry will render it liable to disqualification. Selection criteria - The Committee will evaluate nominations/applications on the basis of multi-faceted criteria for the various categories of the awards as detailed below: - a) Identification and nurturing of budding talent:(i) Number of children identified and nurtured year-wise in the last three years(ii) Details of sports infrastructure created(iii) Number of schools, colleges, universities, clubs, or other such units adopted(iv) Number of sportspersons trained(v) Equipment support and other support extended(vi) Number of competitions/tournaments held(vii) Sports achievements of identified children(viii) Any other incentive is given to trainees (b) Encouragement to sports through corporate social responsibility:(i) Funds earmarked under corporate social responsibility for sports- related activities year wise (during the last three preceding financial years)(ii) Details of sports activities (including creation and development/upgradation of sports infrastructure, procurement of sports equipment, engagement of coaches, the conduct of sports competitions/tournaments, training and coaching of sportspersons and teams) funded under Corporate Social Responsibility during last preceding three years. (d) Employment of sportspersons and other welfare measures:(i) Number of sportspersons employed year-wise during the last three years(ii) Level of employment along with salary structure(iii) Promotional avenues offered to sportspersons employed(iv) Sports achievements of employed sportspersons(v) other welfare measures for sportspersons (e) Sports for development: (i) Details of activities undertaken for harnessing the potential of sport to contribute to the achievement of development objectives and peace,(ii) Details of activities to ensure that communities have physical play environments that are safe and accessible,(iii) Details of activities undertaken towards enhancement of the capacity of schools and teachers to effectively deliver sports and physical education programs.(iv) Year of coming into existence of the NGO.ExclusionsThe Sports Departments of the State Governments and the Central Government are mandated specifically For promotion and development, sports should not be considered for the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar.Application ProcessOnlineFor this scheme, the applications are being invited only online through a dedicated Portal. Entities eligible in accordance with the award guidelines are permitted to self-apply without the recommendation of the authorities/persons through the online Portal dbtyas-sports.gov.in only. Step 1: The applicant will open the website https://dbtyas- sports.gov.in/ to registerand apply for Online Schemes of the Department of Sports. Step 2: The applicant will click on the Registration tab to start the one-time registration process. Here the applicant will fill in the required personal details including verification of their mobile number through OTP.(Registration Type, Organization Name, Individual Name, Address, State, City, District, Block, Village, Pin Code, Email, Mobile Number) Step 3: After successful registration, the applicant will get the message that the login credentials have been sent to the registered email ID. Step 4: The applicant will use the login credentials received on the registered email ID to login into the online portal. Please remember to refresh the captcha before clicking on the login button. Step 5: After first-time login, the applicant will be required to update their other basic details. After filling in the details click on the Update button and the profile will be successfully updated.(Name of the Applicant, Father's Name, Mother's Name, Gender, DOB, Nationality, Address, email, Mobile Number) Step 6: The applicant will click on the Schemes tab and apply for the desired scheme. Note: In case any issue is faced in the online application form, the applicant may contact the Department of Sports at section.sp4-moyas@govin, Tel. No. 011-23387432 from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm on any working day.Documents Required[in progress]Frequently Asked QuestionsWhen Was This Scheme Instituted?The Scheme "Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar" was instituted in the year 2009 by the Department of Sports.What Are The Categories In Which The Award Is Conferred?There are four categories of awards under the Scheme: (a) Identification and nurturing of budding/young talent (b) Encouragement to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility (c) Employment of sports persons and sports welfare measures (d) Sports for DevelopmentWhat Are The Objectives Of This Scheme?The objective of the award is to encourage and promote the involvement of corporates, voluntary organizations, sports control boards, etc., in the promotion and development of sports in the country.What Are The Benefits Provided Under This Award?The awards will consist of a citation and a trophy in each of the above-mentioned categories. There will be no cash award.Where Can I Find The Video Tutorial For The Application Process?The video tutorial for the application process can be viewed at this link - https://dbtyas-sports.gov.in/home/User_Manual#What Are The Eligibility Criteria For The Category Of 'Identification And Nurturing Of Budding/Young Talent'?For the category of 'Identification and nurturing of budding/young talent', the entity should have identified and nurtured at least 50 young and budding sportspersons each year during the last three years.What Are The Eligibility Criteria For The Category Of 'Sports For Development'?For the category of 'Sports for Development', only non-governmental organizations, which have been working for the promotion and development of sports at least for the last three years would be eligible to apply. Memorandum of Association, Rules & Regulations, Bye-laws, etc under which the applicant NGO has been established and documents indicating the source of funds for its functioning and activities should also be submitted along with the application.What Are The Eligibility Criteria For The Category Of 'Employment Of Sportspersons And Sports Welfare Measures'?For the category of 'Employment of sportspersons and sports welfare measures', the entity should have recruited at least 50 sportspersons during the last three years.Do I Need To Apply Offline For This Scheme?No, the applicant should visit the website https://dbtyas-sports.gov.in/ to register and apply for Online Schemes of the Department of Sports.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesUser Manual - Application ProcessOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Youth Affairs & SportsRashtriya Khel Protsahan PuruskarAwardSportsDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe Scheme "Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar" was instituted in the year 2009 by the Department of Sports. There are four categories of awards under the Scheme:(a) Identification and nurturing of budding/young talent(b) Encouragement to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility(c) Employment of sports persons and sports welfare measures(d) Sports for Development OBJECTIVEThe objective of the award is to encourage and promote the involvement of corporates, voluntary organizations, sports control boards, etc., in the promotion and development of sports in the country. Any corporate entity, public or private, sports control boards and non-governmental organizationNG0s) including sports bodies at the state and national level, which have played a visible role in the area of ports promotion and development will be eligible to be considered for Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1