Ramalingaswami Re-Entry Fellowship OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologyRamalingaswami Re-Entry FellowshipFellowshipGrantPhDResearchDetailsThe Department of Biotechnology has instituted a scheme known as the Ramalingaswami Re-Entry Fellowship . The scheme is aimed at Indian Nationals who are working overseas in various fields of biotechnology and life sciences and are interested in taking up scientific research positions in India. The Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows would be able to work in any of the scientific Institutions/Universities in the country. The applicant should have a proven/outstanding track record as evidenced by research publications and recognitions. The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows shall also be eligible for regular research grant through extramural and other research schemes of various S&T agencies of the Government of India. The scheme has been conceptualized with the aim of attracting highly skilled researchers (Indian Nationals) working overseas in various cutting-edge disciplines of any area of Life Sciences & Biotechnology, Bio-engineering, Healthcare (human and animal), Agriculture and Veterinary biotechnology, Bio-energy and allied areas by providing them an attractive avenue to pursue their R&D interests in Indian universities/institutions.BenefitsThe amount of the fellowship will be 1,00,000/- per month.HRA will be 18,500 per month.Each awardee will, in addition, receive a Research Support grant of 13,00,000 lakh/year for the purchase of consumables, minor equipment, domestic travel, engaging project staff and other contingent expenditures to be incurred in connection with the implementation of the project. 50,000/annum institutional overhead will be paid to the host institute.Awardees will be eligible for regular research grant/s through extramural and other research schemes of various S&T agencies of the Government of India, provided that a Co-PI is a regular faculty member, and the concerned funding agency allows for this.The awardees can choose to work at any S&T institution including university departments or other academic institutions and national laboratories in India, provided the institution at which they wish to pursue research is willing to provide the necessary R&D, administrative, and basic infrastructural support to facilitate research. DURATION AND NUMBER OF FELLOWSHIP The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. In exceptional cases, the duration of the award may be extended by additional two years after a fresh appraisal of performance. During the extension period the fellow will be provided with Fellowship, Contingency/Research grant, HRA and Overhead. Upto 75 fellowships will be awarded every year. EligibilityThe Indian working in any area of life sciences & biotechnology, bio-engineering, healthcare (human and animal), agriculture and veterinary biotechnology, bio-energy, and allied areas will be eligible to apply.The applicant should possess a Ph.D/MD degree or equivalent in life sciences/ agriculture, bioinformatics, and allied areas or an M.Tech in engineering or technology/ medicine, etc. with at least three years of post-doctoral research experience in overseas research laboratories. Those who have already returned to India within one year of the closing date of the advertisement (two years for women candidates) are also eligible to apply; however, if they have secured a permanent position in India within this period then they are not eligible to apply.Applicants should have a proven/outstanding track record as evidenced by research publications and recognitions.In case a fellow joins a permanent position, the fellowship and HRA components of the scheme will be discontinued, however, he/she can avail the research grant component of the fellowship for the remaining tenure of the fellowship.The upper age limit for applying is 45 years.Once a candidate is selected for the fellowship, before the initiation of the fellowship, he/she would need to submit a two-member advisory committee comprising one member from his/her host institute and one from another institute in India or abroad from the area of his/her research. The advisory committee will mentor the research work of the fellow and suggest course correction, and their opinion/views regarding the progress of the fellow may also be sought by the committee, whenever required.Application ProcessOnlineStep 1: DBT will periodically advertise the Fellowship on the website of DBT India and on the website of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology and also in National Newspapers and Scientific Journals. Step 2: The applicants must register on the online portal, fill in complete information in the online application form and submit it before the closing date of the application. Step 3: The online application form to be filled by the applicant comprises information pertaining to Personal Information, Academic Qualifications, Post-Doctoral Experience, Work Experience, Research Contribution, Referee Details, Proposed Research Work, and Proposed Host Institution. Step 4: The committee constituted by the Department of Biotechnology will recommend the selection of thecandidates for the fellowship. NOTE: The application shall be submitted in ONLINE mode only. The application form which has not been submitted through Online Portal shall not be accepted.Documents RequiredDate of Birth ProofCopy of Passport (if applicable)Doctoral Degree CertificateDetails of Research ContributionReprints of 5 Best Research PublicationsResearch Proposal detailing Proposed Research Work Certificate by Host Institute Letters of Recommendation Undertaking from the applicant/ Statement from Current Employer (certifying that applicant is not in a permanent position in India) (if applicable)Source: Regional Centre for Biotechnology Frequently Asked QuestionsWho Is Eligible To Apply?Indian nationals working abroad as Post-doctoral fellows/Scientists in any area of Life Sciences & Biotechnology, Bio-Engineering, Health Care (human and animal), Agriculture and Veterinary Biotechnology, Bio- Energy and allied areas are eligible to apply.Are Overseas Citizens Of India Eligible To Apply?No, overseas citizens of India are not eligible to applyHow Many Years Of Post-Doctoral Experience Do I Require To Apply?A minimum of three years of post-doctoral experience in overseas laboratories is required for applying.Can I Apply If I Have Already Returned To India?Yes, you can apply for this fellowship if you have already returned to India provided it is less than a year (2 years for women candidates) as on the closing date of advertisement. However, if you have secured a permanent position in India during this period, you can not apply for the fellowshipWill My Research Experience After Returning To India Be Taken Into Account?No, only the research experience abroad would be counted.From Which Date On My Postdoctoral Experience Will Be Considered?Postdoctoral experience will be counted from the date of your joining as Post-doctoral fellow after your Ph. D degree has been awarded.If My Postdoctoral Experience Is Just Short Of One Month As On The Last Date Of Application Then, Can I Apply?No, in that case you are not eligible.Can I Apply For The Fellowship If I Already Have A Job/ Position In India After My Return From Overseas?No, in that case you are not eligibleIs There Any Age Bar For Applying?The upper age limit for applying is 45 years as on last date of receiving applications.Will Experience In Industry Be Counted As Research Experience?Any research experience (post-PhD/post-MD or equivalent) regardless of the type of organization where it was carried out would be considered.. Am I Eligible To Apply In Two Different Schemes Simultaneously?Yes, you can apply for two different schemes simultaneously. But upon selection you need to choose only one fellowship.Do I Need A Host Institute In India While Applying For RLS Fellowship?Yes, you need to choose a host institute/university/ industry in India where you would like to carry out your research during the tenure of the fellowship. The forwarding should be from Head of the Institution like Registrar/Vice Chancellor/ Director/Dean Research (as the case may be). Forwardal from the Head of the division will not be considered.Can My Application Be Forwarded By Two Different Host Institutes?You can submit your nomination through single host institute only. However, host institute can nominate more than one candidate.What Would Be My Professional Status In The Host Institute Once I Join As RLS Fellow?Your position will be temporary only, however, Department encourages the host institutions to treat the fellow at par with faculty- Assistant Professor/Scientist D level, for the facilities like medical benefits, etc. from the institution s resources. In addition, the host institute may also allow you to take Ph.D/dissertation students.What Will Be The Duration Of Fellowship?The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. In exceptional cases, the duration of the award may be extended by another two years after a fresh appraisal. Those who have already been absorbed as permanent faculty during the tenure will not be considered for extension.What Is The Amount Of Fellowship That Is Provided To RLS Fellows?A consolidated monthly remuneration of Rs. 1,00,000/- p.m. (consolidated) is provided to the Ramalingaswami fellows upon selection after joining their respective host institutes. In addition, a House Rent Allowance of Rs. 18,500/- p.m. is given to fellows.Is There Any Research/ Contingent Grant Provided?A research/contingency grant of Rs. 13.00 lakh/year for purchase the of consumables, minor equipment, domestic travel, engaging manpower, and other contingent expenditures to be incurred for the implementation of the research proposal would be provided to the Ramalingaswami fellows. Institutional overhead Rs. 50,000/ year is also providedIs The Fellowship Taxable?The fellowship is taxable as per Govt. of India rules. For any matter related to the tax, the Department dealing with tax related matters may be contacted directly.Sources And ReferencesGuidelines (2023)FAQsAdvertisement (2022-23)Application Format (for Reference Only)Contact UsTerms And ConditionsOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologyRamalingaswami Re-Entry FellowshipFellowshipGrantPhDResearchDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe Department of Biotechnology has instituted a scheme known as the Ramalingaswami Re-Entry Fellowship . The scheme is aimed at Indian Nationals who are working overseas in various fields of biotechnology and life sciences and are interested in taking up scientific research positions in India. The Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows would be able to work in any of the scientific Institutions/Universities in the country. The applicant should have a proven/outstanding track record as evidenced by research publications and recognitions. The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows shall also be eligible for regular research grant through extramural and other research schemes of various S&T agencies of the Government of India. The scheme has been conceptualized with the aim of attracting highly skilled researchers (Indian Nationals) working overseas in various cutting-edge disciplines of any area of Life Sciences & Biotechnology, Bio-engineering, Healthcare (human and animal), Agriculture and Veterinary biotechnology, Bio-energy and allied areas by providing them an attractive avenue to pursue their R&D interests in Indian universities/institutions.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport- myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1