SERB Research Scientist Scheme OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologySERB Research Scientist Scheme FacultyFellowshipINSPIRERamanujanResearch ScientistSERBDetailsThe INSPIRE Faculty Scheme of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the Ramanujan Fellowship Scheme of the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) offer opportunities for young scientists to initiate and sustain research careers in various fields of science and engineering. These schemes do not offer an extension of the fellowship after the completion of five years. The support link is broken after the end of the tenure of the respective fellowships. In order to provide a platform for the sustainment of their research for some more time, the SERB Board has recently approved a new SERB Research Scientist (SRS) Scheme for the awardees of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellowships, who fail to secure regular positions after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes. The fellows will be called SERB Research Scientists . The scheme provides an opportunity for them to continue their research activities and also to explore regular positions during the intervening period.Objective:Identify and provide a platform for sustainment of the research career of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellows for an additional period of two years after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes.BenefitsThe SERB Research Scientists will be entitled to receive the grants as given below:Sl. No.Budget HeadAmount1Emolument* Consolidated amount of 1,20,000/- per month2Research Grant 7,00,000/- per annum3Overheads 1,00,000/- per annum* All InclusiveNote 01: Research grants can be used for minor equipment, consumables, contingencies, and travel. There is no provision for providing manpower support under this scheme. The Research Scientist is expected to undertake the research objectives by himself/herself during the entire duration of the SRS Scheme.Note 02: The SERB Research Scientists are not eligible to receive any other research project/fellowship from any Government or Non-Governmental source during the tenure of the Scheme.Note 03: The SERB Research Scientists must seek the consent of SERB if he/she intends to be away from the implementing institute (except for field work related to the project) continuously for a period of more than eight weeks.Leave:SERB Research Scientists are entitled to leave as per the rules of the host institution.Participation in scientific workshops held in India or abroad will be treated as on duty.Maternity leave as per the Govt. of India instructions issued from time to time would be available to female candidates in all categories.EligibilityThe scheme is open only to INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellows.The applicant should have completed or nearing completion of the tenure of INSPIRE Faculty of DST or Ramanujan Fellowship of SERB.The upper age limit for INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellows is 40 years at the time of submission of application.SRS can be availed only once by a candidate in his/her career.Note 01: The SRS Scheme will be made effective only after the completion of the tenure of the respective INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellowship.Note 02: The SRS scheme can be availed only once by a candidate in his/her career.Note 03: The SRS is tenable only in India and can be implemented in any of the recognized academic institutions, national laboratories and other recognized R & D institutions. The host institution should provide necessary administrative and infrastructural support.Note 04: The Faculty/Fellow can either implement the SRS Scheme from the present host institution or opt to choose a different host institution that is suitable to the objectives of the proposed research work.Note 05: The SRSs will not be allowed to work at the same Department/institution where the candidates have earned their PhD/M.S./M.D degree.Note 06: The SRS is purely a temporary and contractual assignment, and is tenable for a period of 2 years, extendable to one more year, subject to performance evaluation. Under any circumstances, the support is not extendable beyond three years.Application ProcessOfflineApplication Procedure:Step 01: The application for SRS will be opened throughout the year. The details of SRS will be notified through the websites www.serb.gov.in, www.serbonline.in and www.dst.gov.in.Step 02: Application shall be submitted within six months before or after completion of regular tenure of the schemes. However, previous batches may be allowed to apply now at the opening of this new scheme.Note 03: The application should be prepared and submitted strictly according to the formats prescribed in this document (Annexure I), the said Annexure can be downloaded from the official website.Note 04: The candidates should submit 3 copies of the application printed on both sides of A4 size paper and send to:Dr. Harish Kumar, Scientist FScience and Engineering Research Board3rd & 4th floor, Block II, Technology Bhawan,New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi- 110016, INDIAStep 05: A softcopy of the proposal complete in all respects should also be mailed to harishkumar@nic.inNote: The envelope/mail containing the application should be superscribed with SERB Research Scientist (Specify the area*) [* Chemical Sciences, Earth & Atmospheric Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Life Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physical Sciences]Selection Procedure:The application will be evaluated by a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose. The Committee may consider the performance evaluation by the relevant subject expert committee during the tenure of the INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellowship Scheme. If required, the applicants may be called for personal interviews.Documents Required1. Passport size photograph2. Bio-data of the applicant3. Age Proof Certificate4. Qualification Certificate5. Award Letter (INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellow)6. Undertaking Certificate by the applicant7. Endorsement Certificate from the Host InstituteFrequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the SERB Research Scientist Scheme ?SERB Board has launched a new SERB Research Scientist (SRS) Scheme for the awardees of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellowships, who fail to secure regular positions after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes. The scheme provides an opportunity for them to continue their research activities and also to explore regular positions during the intervening period.What is the objective of the Scheme? The objective of the scheme is to identify and provide a platform for sustainment of the research career of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellows for an additional period of two years after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes.Which is the implementing agency of this scheme?Science and Engineering Research Board, Government of IndiaWhat are the eligibility criteria for applying/availing the Fellowship?The scheme is open only to INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellows. The applicant should have completed or nearing completion of the tenure of INSPIRE Faculty of DST or Ramanujan Fellowship of SERB. The upper age limit for INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellows is 40 years at the time of submission of application.What are the areas covered under this Fellowship?Chemical Sciences, Earth & Atmospheric Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Life Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physical SciencesWhat is the nature of support for the Fellow?Under this scheme, Emolument: Consolidated amount of 1,20,000/- per month Research Grant 7,00,000/- per annum Overheads 1,00,000/- per annum.Can a fellow (SERB Research Scientist) be eligible to receive any other research project/fellowship?No, the SERB Research Scientists are not eligible to receive any other research project/fellowship from any Government or Non-Governmental source during the tenure of the Scheme.How many times can a fellow avail this fellowship?Only once, the eligible fellow can avail this fellowship in his/her career.What is the duration of this fellowship?The scheme is tenable for a period of 2 years, extendable to one more year, subject to performance evaluation. Under any circumstances, the support is not extendable beyond three years.When can an applicant apply for the Fellowship? What is the last date of acceptance of the application?The application for SRS will be opened throughout the year. Application shall be submitted within six months before or after completion of regular tenure of the schemes. However, previous batches may be allowed to apply now at the opening of this new scheme. How can an application submit under the scheme?The candidates should submit 3 copies of the application printed on both sides of A4 size paper and send to: Dr. Harish Kumar, Scientist F Science and Engineering Research Board 3rd & 4th floor, Block II, Technology Bhawan, New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi- 110016, INDIAHow will the applications be evaluated?The application will be evaluated by a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose. The Committee may consider the performance evaluation by the relevant subject expert committee during the tenure of the INSPIRE Faculty/Ramanujan Fellowship Scheme. If required, the applicants may be called for personal interviews.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesOfficial WebsiteDST WebsiteSERB Online WebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologySERB Research Scientist Scheme FacultyFellowshipINSPIRERamanujanResearch ScientistSERBDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe INSPIRE Faculty Scheme of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the Ramanujan Fellowship Scheme of the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) offer opportunities for young scientists to initiate and sustain research careers in various fields of science and engineering. These schemes do not offer an extension of the fellowship after the completion of five years. The support link is broken after the end of the tenure of the respective fellowships. In order to provide a platform for the sustainment of their research for some more time, the SERB Board has recently approved a new SERB Research Scientist (SRS) Scheme for the awardees of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellowships, who fail to secure regular positions after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes. The fellows will be called SERB Research Scientists . The scheme provides an opportunity for them to continue their research activities and also to explore regular positions during the intervening period.Objective:Identify and provide a platform for sustainment of the research career of INSPIRE Faculty and Ramanujan Fellows for an additional period of two years after completion of the regular tenure of five years in the respective schemes.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport- myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1