Good Samaritan Scheme OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Road Transport & HighwaysGood Samaritan SchemeAccidentCitizen EmpowermentHealthDetailsLaunched on 3rd Oct 2021 by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, the "Scheme for Good Samaritan" grants an award to the good samaritan who has saved the life of a victim of a fatal accident (involving a motor vehicle) by administering immediate assistance and rushing to Hospital/Trauma Care Centre within the Golden Hour of the accident to provide medical treatment. The amount of award for each Good Samaritan would be 5,000/- per incident. The scheme will remain operational till the completion of the 15th Financial Cycle, i.e. till 31st March 2026. The objective of the scheme is to motivate the general public to help road accident victims in emergency situations and inspire and motivate others to save innocent lives.. A Good Samaritan who has informed the police of any accident involving a motor vehicle, or who has transported a victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle to the hospital, shall not be subjected to any further requirements by the police or the hospital and shall be permitted to leave immediately. Benefits1. If one Good Samaritan saves the life of one or more victims of a single fatal accident involving a motor vehicle, the amount of the award will be 5000/- only.2. If more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of one victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle, the amount of the award i.e. 5000/-will be divided equally among them.3. If more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of more than one victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle, the amount of award will be 5000/- per victim saved subject to a maximum of 5000/-per Good Samaritan.4. Every cash award would be accompanied by a "Certification of Appreciation".5. There will be 10 National Level Awards for the most worthy Good Samaritans (who will be selected from all those who have been awarded during the whole year) and they would be given an Award of 1,00,000/- each.6. An individual Good Samaritan can be awarded a maximum of 5 times a year.Eligibility1. The applicant should have saved the life of a victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle by administering immediate assistance and rushing to the Hospital/Trauma Care Centre within the Golden Hour of the accident to provide medical treatment.2. Good Samaritans, who are not willing to disclose their details, would not be awarded under the scheme.Application ProcessOfflineCase 01: In case the incident is informed to the police at the first hand by the Good Samaritan. After verifying details from Doctor the police shall provide Acknowledgment to such Good Samaritan, on an official letter pad, mentioning the name of the good Samaritan, his mobile number and address, place, date, and time of the incident, and how the Good Samaritan has helped in saving the life of the victim, etc. Case 02: In case the Good Samaritan takes the victim to the hospital directly. The concerned hospital shall provide all the details to the concerned police station. The police shall provide an Acknowledgment to such Good Samaritan, on an official letter pad, mentioning the name of the Good Samaritan, his mobile number and address, place, date, and time of the incident, how the Good Samaritan has helped in saving the life of the victim, etc. Step 01: The copy of the Acknowledgement (as per Annexure - A) would be sent by the concerned police station to the Appraisal Committee formed at District Level under the Chairmanship of the District Magistrate with a copy marked to the Good Samaritan(s). with a copy marked to the Good Samaritan(s). Step 02: On receipt of communication from the Police Station/Hospital, the District Level Appraisal Committee shall review and approve the proposals on a monthly basis. Step 03: This list would be sent to the Transport Commissioner of the concerned State / UT Transport Department for necessary payment. Step 04: The payment for selected Good Samaritan would be made online in their Bank Account directly by the Transport Department of the State/UT. Step 05: By 30th September or the date decided by MoRTH every year, the State Level Monitoring Committee of each State/UT will nominate the three most worthy proposals for national-level awards on yearly basis to this Ministry for further consideration. An Appraisal Committee of MoRTH headed by AS/JS (Road Safety) and also comprising of Director/ Deputy Secretary (Road safety), Director/Deputy Secretary (Transport), and Dy. Financial Advisor/ MoRTH shall review the proposals received from each State / UTs and select the best ten Good Samaritans of the year. They will be awarded Rs. 1,00,000/- each along with a Certificate and trophy during NRSM in Delhi.Documents Required[in progress]Frequently Asked QuestionsWho Is A Good Samaritan?A Good Samaritan is a person who, in good faith, without expectation of payment or reward and without any duty of care or special relationship, voluntarily comes forward to administer immediate assistance or emergency care to a person injured in an accident, or crash, or emergency medical condition, or emergency situation.What Is Good Samaritan Law?The Good Samaritan Law allows a person, without expectation of payment or reward and without any duty of care or special relationship, voluntarily come forward to administer immediate assistance or emergency care to a person injured in an accident, or crash, or emergency medical condition. Good Samaritan Law protects Good Samaritans from harassment on the actions being taken by them to save the life of the road accident victims.Why The Need For Good Samaritan Law? India is an unfortunate victim of a large number of road crash fatalities. Three out of four people in the country are hesitant to help injured accident victims on roads due to fear of police harassment, detention at hospitals, and prolonged legal formalities. Even if someone wants to help, these factors stop them from doing so.How Did India Get A Good Samaritan Law?In the last ten years, road crashes have killed over 13 lakh people in India. According to the Law Commission of India, 50% of these victims died of preventable injuries and could have been saved if they had received care on time. The role of the bystander is critical in providing emergency care to the victim. Yet, in India, bystanders have been hesitant to help the injured for fear of legal repercussions and procedural hassles. In 2012, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the Supreme Court of India, requesting the Hon'ble court to safeguard Good Samaritans who come forward to help the injured.What is the Award For Each Good Samaritan?The amount of award for each Good Samaritan would be 5,000/- per incident.Till when shall this scheme Remain Operational?The scheme will remain operational till the completion of the 15th Financial Cycle, i.e. till 31st March 2026.What is the Objective Of The Good Samaritan Scheme?The objective of the scheme is to motivate the general public to help road accident victims in emergency situations and inspire and motivate others to save innocent lives.. Will the Good Samaritan be Subjected To Any Further Requirements By The Police?A Good Samaritan who has informed the police of any accident involving a motor vehicle, or who has transported a victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle to the hospital, shall not be subjected to any further requirements by the police or the hospital and shall be permitted to leave immediately.How many National Level Awards are granted each year For The Most Worthy Good Samaritans? There will be 10 National Level Awards for the most worthy Good Samaritans (who will be selected from all those who have been awarded during the whole year) and they would be given an Award of 1,00,000/- each.How many times can a Good Samaritan be awarded? An individual Good Samaritan can be awarded a maximum of 5 times a year.Will the Good Samaritan receive a "Certification of Appreciation"?Yes, every cash award would be accompanied by a "Certification of Appreciation".What if More Than One Good Samaritan Saves The Life Of More Than One Victim?If more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of more than one victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle, the amount of award will be 5000/- per victim saved subject to a maximum of 5000/-per Good Samaritan.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesTHE MOTOR VEHICLES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019 NO. 32 OF 2019OkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Road Transport & HighwaysGood Samaritan SchemeAccidentCitizen EmpowermentHealthDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsLaunched on 3rd Oct 2021 by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, the "Scheme for Good Samaritan" grants an award to the good samaritan who has saved the life of a victim of a fatal accident (involving a motor vehicle) by administering immediate assistance and rushing to Hospital/Trauma Care Centre within the Golden Hour of the accident to provide medical treatment. The amount of award for each Good Samaritan would be 5,000/- per incident. The scheme will remain operational till the completion of the 15th Financial Cycle, i.e. till 31st March 2026. The objective of the scheme is to motivate the general public to help road accident victims in emergency situations and inspire and motivate others to save innocent lives.. A Good Samaritan who has informed the police of any accident involving a motor vehicle, or who has transported a victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle to the hospital, shall not be subjected to any further requirements by the police or the hospital and shall be permitted to leave immediately. OkWas this helpful? ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1