SERB International Research Experience OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologySERB International Research ExperienceFellowFellowshipInternational ResearchSERBSIREDetailsThe Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India has launched "SERB International Research Experience (SIRE)". This Program aims to impart high-end research training in frontier areas of Science and Technology, which are of interest to India by providing an opportunity to visit leading institutions/universities across the globe for a period of 02-06 months. The SERB under this program selects candidates in frontier areas of S & T and supports their visit to top institutions around the globe, preferably to the institutions where internationally acclaimed scientists are working.Objectives:To build national capacity in frontier areas of Science and Technology by providing opportunities for International R&D experience by SIRE fellows.To tap the expertise gained by SIRE fellows to strengthen/initiate national programmes in their domain knowledge.To encourage research activities in priority areas that are still less explored in the Indian context.BenefitsThe selected fellows will be paid a monthly fellowship amount equivalent to US $ 3000.One-time Contingency/Preparatory allowances of 75,000/- to cover visa fees, airport transfer charges, insurance, etc.,Overseas Medical Insurance in India and abroad of 20,000/-.The selected fellows will also be provided the shortest route economy class airfare from their place of work in India to the place of the host institute and back.Note 01: The maximum duration of the abroad visit is limited to 06 months.Note 02: For scientists/researchers in regular employment, rules governing payment of salary, leave, medical, gratuity, GPF pension, etc. of the organization/ institution/ university to which the fellow belongs would continue to be applicable as per their institutional norms. No liability on any of these will be borne by SERB.EligibilityThe scheme is open to Indian nationals only.Applicant should have a Ph.D. degree in the area of Science and Engineering from recognized institutions in India.The applicant must hold a permanent position in any Indian research and academic institution.Applicants having MBBS/MD degrees and Veterinary doctors are also eligible to apply.Applicants having a Teachers Associateship for Research Excellence (TARE) award are also eligible to apply.Applicant must submit a letter of support from the overseas host institution along with the application.The age limit for applying under this scheme shall be 40 years (as of the date of submission of application). Age relaxation of 5 years will be given to applicants belonging to SC/ST/OBC/physically challenged and women categories.Application ProcessOnlineApplication Procedure:Step 01: The application for consideration can be submitted through the SERB online portal www.serbonline.in only when the call for proposal is made.Step 02: Applicant should first register on the online website. Click here to register Step 03: After successful registration, the user will be sent a confirmation mail on the registered email ID. Users must click on the URL provided in the mail to confirm registration.Step 04: After login, the applicant(s) are required to fill all the mandatory fields in the Profile Detail section under User Profile, which includes Bio-data, Photo, Institute Address, etc.Step 05: Details like Qualification, Research Experience, Fellowships (if any), Employment, Patent (if any), Publications (if any), Projects (if any), and Research Collaborations (if any) have to be provided.Step 06: Some of the details of your proposed work like Title (max 500 characters), Keywords (max 6), Expected output and outcome (max 1500 characters) and Tentative dates of visit, etc. have to be entered at the time of submission.Step 07: The Research Plan has to be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 10 MB.Note 01: Applicant must submit the endorsement letter duly signed by the head of the organization/ institute where the applicant is employed.Note 02: The candidate should also submit a letter of approval of the research plan from the host.Selection:The selection would be made among faculties who gained approval of the research plan from overseas institutions. The Board will constitute a selection committee to select the candidates.Note: The candidates selected under this programme should commence their research in an overseas institution within one month from the date of the offer letter, and if not, the offer will be automatically withdrawn and no correspondence will be entertained thereafter.Documents Required1. Passport size photograph2. Bio- data of applicant3. Bio-data of Overseas Host Scientist4. Consent letter from host5. Research Plan6. Plagiarism undertaking7. Certificate from Applicant8. Endorsement Letter from the Head of Institution9. Age Proof Certificate (Class X mark sheet or Birth certificate)10. Category Certificate (In case of Age Relaxation)Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the aim of this scheme?This scheme aims to impart high-end research training in frontier areas of Science and Technology, which are of interest to India by providing an opportunity to visit leading institutions/universities across the globe for a period of 02-06 months.What is the objective of the Scheme?The following are the objectives of the scheme: To build national capacity in frontier areas of Science and Technology by providing opportunities for International R&D experience by SIRE fellows. To tap the expertise gained by SIRE fellows to strengthen/initiate national programmes in their domain knowledge. To encourage research activities in priority areas which are still less explored in Indian context.Which is the implementing agency of this scheme?Science and Engineering Research Board, Government of IndiaCan I avail SIRE fellowship multiple times?No, any applicant is eligible to avail this fellowship only once in his / her career.Can I apply for only one month visit?No. The duration of the proposed visit must be within 02-6 months.Can I use SIRE fellowship to visit other nearby institutions during my stay in the proposed country?No, SIRE fellowship must be utilized only for the purpose for which it has been sanctioned.Will flight cancellation / rescheduling charges or extra baggage charges be considered under SIRE fellowship?No. SERB will not provide any type of cancellation / rescheduling charges or extra baggage charges. I am 41 years old. Can I avail SIRE fellowship?The maximum age limit to apply under SIRE programme is 40 years. However, SC/ST/OBC and Women candidates will be given age relaxation of 5 years, provided, the applicant has submitted the valid category proof.What, if I have provided any incorrect/misleading information or breach of terms and conditions?Fellowship will be cancelled and given support will be withdrawn at any stage. SERB has all the rights to take any action in consultation with the applicant's parent organization / university / institute etc. including refund of entire amount spent on the SIRE Fellow along with the interest thereon to SERB.I have an ongoing SERB project under CRG/SRG. Am I eligible to apply under SIRE?Yes.I have availed ITS support of SERB this year / last year. Am I eligible to apply under SIRE?Yes.I have done my Ph.D. from abroad. Am I eligible to apply?No. Only those candidates who have completed their Ph.D. from India are eligible to apply.Are INSPIRE Faculty / Ramanujan Fellow eligible to apply under SIRE? No.Is tenure track faculty position qualify as permanent position and are they eligible to apply under SIRE?Yes, however, the institution must endorse the tenure track faculty as permanent faculty.How can I submit the application form under the scheme?The application for consideration under the SERB International Research Experience (SIRE) Program can be submitted through the SERB online portal www.serbonline.in only when the call for proposal in made.Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesSERB WebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologySERB International Research ExperienceFellowFellowshipInternational ResearchSERBSIREDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India has launched "SERB International Research Experience (SIRE)". This Program aims to impart high-end research training in frontier areas of Science and Technology, which are of interest to India by providing an opportunity to visit leading institutions/universities across the globe for a period of 02-06 months. The SERB under this program selects candidates in frontier areas of S & T and supports their visit to top institutions around the globe, preferably to the institutions where internationally acclaimed scientists are working.Objectives:To build national capacity in frontier areas of Science and Technology by providing opportunities for International R&D experience by SIRE fellows.To tap the expertise gained by SIRE fellows to strengthen/initiate national programmes in their domain knowledge.To encourage research activities in priority areas that are still less explored in the Indian context.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1