Samajik Mukti OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In West BengalSamajik MuktiFinancialLabourProvident FundSocialUnorganised SectorDetailsThe government issued 'Samajik Mukti' (Social Freedom) cards to unorganised sector workers of the State for Provident Fund & Other Social Benefit scheme. "The name of this card is Samajik Mukti card. Initially, 25 lakhs beneficiaries were given the card under the State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW). Finally, the cards have been distributed to disburse benefits under three schemes of State government namely: i) State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW) ii) Buildings and other Construction workers' welfare scheme iii) Motor Transport workers' welfare scheme. The objective of the project is to realize the following objectives: i) Bringing the maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available. 'SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD for the marginal & unorganized sector workers in the State is an important step towards the empowerment of all unorganised sector workers. The vision is to enroll all unorganized sector workers under State Assisted Scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW), Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWA) and West Bengal Motor Transport Workers Welfare (WBTWSS) Schemes and the unorganized sector workers covered under SASPFUW are getting special smart cards called SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD Smart Card (with 32 KB memory) based solution for Samajik Mukti Card brings immense benefits:An online web based application in connection with administration of SASPFUW Scheme is already in operation and would become fully functional in the near future. A beneficiary would be able to have an access to his/ her records through this Samajik Mukti Card . Samajik Mukti Card can be used by an unorganized worker at any of the 68 Regional labour Offices (R.L.O) at districts and subdivisions as well as in all 480 Labour Welfare Facilitation Centres (L.W.F.C) in blocks and Municipalities. All such offices are provided with computer along with card reader and card writer. On inserting the card in the card reader/ writer, the required information will be seen on computer screen. Once transaction is made and /or benefits are availed by a worker, it will be automatically updated and shown in the computer screen. The card reader/ writer system will be connected to the Central SASPFUW Server hosted at SDC. Samajik Mukti Card is a photo identity smart card for unorganized workers. The card could be read from any R.L.O or L.W.F.C. The records of transaction made and/or benefits availed are electronically maintained and data is tamper proof and highly secured.It is also an attempt to integrate all social security benefits available for the unorganized workers. The objective of the project is to realize following objectives: i) Bringing maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available. The benefits of this scheme include the following:Provident Fund is given to the unorganised worker to provide financial security and stability.Compensation in case of death or disability during work.The government provides financial assistance to the children of beneficiaries who pursue higher studies (for the applicants registered for at least one year). Besides, they give training in safety and skill development.The department also provides health treatment facilities to the unorganised workers who have registered under this scheme. Eligibility: The unorganized workers who want to become members should be residing in West Bengal between the age of 18 to 60 and the family income should not exceed 65 thousand rupees per month. There is no income ceiling for construction workers and transport workers. BenefitsThe benefits of this scheme include the following:Provident Fund is given to the unorganised worker to provide financial security and stability.Compensation in case of death or disability during work.The government provides financial assistance to the children of beneficiaries who pursue higher studies (for the applicants registered for at least one year). Besides, they give training in safety and skill development.The department also provides health treatment facilities to the unorganised workers who have registered under this scheme.EligibilityThe unorganized workers who want to become members should be residing in West BengalThey should be between the age of 18 to 60 years.The family income should not exceed 65 thousand rupees per month. Note: There is no income ceiling for construction workers and transport workers. Application ProcessOfflineThe card is issued to all the people who fall in the eligibility criteria, which acts as the key to applying for all the social welfare schemes related to the welfare of the workers in the unorganised sector. For more details, you may visit your nearest labour department office.Documents RequiredNo official announcement regarding the documents needed for Samajik Mukti Card has been made. But we suggest you keep the following documents in case you need them.Identity ProofIncome ProofEmployment detailsFrequently Asked QuestionsWhat is Samajik Mukti Card?Samajik Mukti Card is a Smart Card (with 32 KB memory) which brings benefits to the workers of the unorganised sectors. Samajik Mukti Card is a photo identity smart card for unorganized workers. The card could be read from any R.L.O or L.W.F.C. The records of transaction made and/or benefits availed are electronically maintained and data is tamper proof and highly secured.Who can get this card?These cards are bring distributed to the residents of west bengal state who work in an unorganised sector.Is there a cap on income of the residents of west bengal who can get this card?Yes, to receive the benefits of this scheme, the family income should not be more than 65000 per month. However, this limit is not applicable to the construction workers and transport workers.Which schemes can the Samajik Mukti card holder take benefit of?State Assisted Scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW), Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWA) and West Bengal Motor Transport Workers Welfare (WBTWSS) Schemes.How can the beneficiary apply for the benefits under these schemes?The beneficiaries can apply online for the benefits of one of these schemes with the help of their Samajik Mukti Card. For more details, you may visit your nearest labour department office.Where can this Samajik Mukti Card be used by an unorganised worker? Samajik Mukti Card can be used by an unorganized worker at any of the 68 Regional labour Offices (R.L.O) at districts and subdivisions as well as in all 480 Labour Welfare Facilitation Centres (L.W.F.C) in blocks and Municipalities. What is the objective of this project?The objective of the project is to realize the following objectives: i) Bringing the maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes II) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes iII) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available.Sources And ReferencesScheme DetailsOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In West BengalSamajik MuktiFinancialLabourProvident FundSocialUnorganised SectorDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe government issued 'Samajik Mukti' (Social Freedom) cards to unorganised sector workers of the State for Provident Fund & Other Social Benefit scheme. "The name of this card is Samajik Mukti card. Initially, 25 lakhs beneficiaries were given the card under the State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW). Finally, the cards have been distributed to disburse benefits under three schemes of State government namely: i) State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW) ii) Buildings and other Construction workers' welfare scheme iii) Motor Transport workers' welfare scheme. The objective of the project is to realize the following objectives: i) Bringing the maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available. 'SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD for the marginal & unorganized sector workers in the State is an important step towards the empowerment of all unorganised sector workers. The vision is to enroll all unorganized sector workers under State Assisted Scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW), Buildings and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWA) and West Bengal Motor Transport Workers Welfare (WBTWSS) Schemes and the unorganized sector workers covered under SASPFUW are getting special smart cards called SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD Smart Card (with 32 KB memory) based solution for Samajik Mukti Card brings immense benefits:An online web based application in connection with administration of SASPFUW Scheme is already in operation and would become fully functional in the near future. A beneficiary would be able to have an access to his/ her records through this Samajik Mukti Card . Samajik Mukti Card can be used by an unorganized worker at any of the 68 Regional labour Offices (R.L.O) at districts and subdivisions as well as in all 480 Labour Welfare Facilitation Centres (L.W.F.C) in blocks and Municipalities. All such offices are provided with computer along with card reader and card writer. On inserting the card in the card reader/ writer, the required information will be seen on computer screen. Once transaction is made and /or benefits are availed by a worker, it will be automatically updated and shown in the computer screen. The card reader/ writer system will be connected to the Central SASPFUW Server hosted at SDC. Samajik Mukti Card is a photo identity smart card for unorganized workers. The card could be read from any R.L.O or L.W.F.C. The records of transaction made and/or benefits availed are electronically maintained and data is tamper proof and highly secured.It is also an attempt to integrate all social security benefits available for the unorganized workers. The objective of the project is to realize following objectives: i) Bringing maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available. The benefits of this scheme include the following:Provident Fund is given to the unorganised worker to provide financial security and stability.Compensation in case of death or disability during work.The government provides financial assistance to the children of beneficiaries who pursue higher studies (for the applicants registered for at least one year). Besides, they give training in safety and skill development.The department also provides health treatment facilities to the unorganised workers who have registered under this scheme. Eligibility: The unorganized workers who want to become members should be residing in West Bengal between the age of 18 to 60 and the family income should not exceed 65 thousand rupees per month. There is no income ceiling for construction workers and transport workers. OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1