Skilled Youth Startup Scheme Sign InBackDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsSources And ReferencesFeedback OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In SikkimSkilled Youth Startup SchemeBusinessEmploymentEntrepreneurshipStartUpYouthDetailsThe "Skilled Youth Start-Up Scheme (SYSS)" was launched with effect on 15th August 2020 by the Commerce & Industries Department of the Government of Sikkim, with the vision to reduce unemployment and create adequate self-employment opportunities in the long run. SYSS is intended to generate equitable entrepreneurial opportunities in rural as well as urban areas of Sikkim, particularly among the educated unemployed youth to become self-employed by setting up Manufacturing / Service / Business / Co-Operative / Agriculture & Allied Activities by availing loans (category wise) with back ended subsidy assistance from the State Government @ 50% for Below Poverty Line (BPL) and @ 35% for rest on financially viable/ bankable Projects cost. Objectives:1. To promote entrepreneurial qualities amongst the local unemployed youth and encourage them for setting up any commercially viable/ bankable business venture in any sector including Agriculture / Horticulture / Food Processing / Animal Husbandry / Handloom & Handicrafts / Retail / Tourism / Services / Manufacturing etc. in the State in tune with the State Government policies. 2. To generate equitable entrepreneurial opportunities in rural as well as urban areas of the State through the setting up of new self-employment ventures/projects by providing one-time non-refundable financial assistance of 50% / 35% with back-ended subsidy on project approval by the Bank/ PSU financial institution. The scheme will be implemented by the Department of Commerce & Industries, Govt. of Sikkim, through the District Industries Centres (DICs) for appraisal of the projects, their financial viability and providing assistance for their credit linkage with the financial institutions and line Departments.BenefitsSubsidyThe beneficiaries will be provided with back-ended subsidy assistance from the State Government @ 50% for BPL and @ 35% for the rest on financially viable/ bankable Project costs. TrainingAfter the selection of beneficiaries, 03-day Entrepreneur Development Training Programme (considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation) shall be conducted by RSETI or any competent Government Training Institute and on completion, the institute will issue training certificates. However, the training shall be completed within 60 days from the date of selection of beneficiary by the Committee. The prescribed EDP training is mandatory before releasing loans by the Banks. Activities Covered and Maximum Project Cost:Category: Animal Husbandry, Agriculture & Allied Activities - Dairy; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 5,00,000Category: Animal Husbandry, Agriculture & Allied Activities - Poultry; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 3,00,000Category: Animal Husbandry, Agriculture & Allied Activities - Piggery; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 5,00,000Category: Organic Farming - Green House; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 3,00,000Category: Food Processing and Other Manufacturing Sectors; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Wood Handicraft & Cottage Industries; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Metal Fabrication Works; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Tourism - Paragliding, Mountain Cycling, etc.; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Rural Homestays; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 15,00,000Category: IT & IT Enabled Services; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Cutting and Tailoring for Cooperative Registered Societies; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 20,00,000Category: Bakery & Restaurants **; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 15,00,000Category: Beauty Parlours / Boutique / Grocery / Manihari & Other Retail Shops; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Coaching Institute / Training Centre; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 5,00,000Category: Herbal Products Industry Including Nurseries; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Paper Bags / Paper Plates; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Bamboo Based Industry (Cane & Bamboo); Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Automobile Workshop Garage / Car Spa; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 10,00,000Category: Diagnostic Centres; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 20,00,000Category: Film Industry / Film Auditorium (Mini Size) Excluding Construction; Max. Project Cost Admissible: 20,00,000Category: Any Other Project Which the Committee Deems to Be Fit for Funding; Max. Project Cost Admissible: Nominal funding.EligibilityEligibility of the Applicant:1. The applicant should possess a Certificate of Identification (COI) of self or his/her father possessing Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification / Residential Certificate for urban areas.2. The applicant should be unemployed possessing a minimum educational qualification of class 5th from any recognized school. For technical projects/ manufacturing and service sector the applicants should possess a certificate from Technical Institute.3. Applicant should be in the age group between 18 years to 45 years of age on the date of filing the application.4. Only one member of a family shall be eligible to avail of the benefits under the Scheme.5. The family income shall not exceed 8,00,000 per annum. The family includes self, spouse, and kids in the case of married applicant. In the case of unmarried beneficiary, the family includes parents and unmarried siblings. In the case of Government Servant, C and D employees' children can only avail of this benefit.6. The scheme comprises of subsidy and contribution of the beneficiary at 5 % of the project cost.7. The beneficiary should not be a defaulter to any nationalized bank / financial institution / Cooperative bank.8. A person who has already availed of subsidy under CMSS/ PMEGP shall not be eligible under the scheme.9. Trade License is mandatory for all kinds of projects/businesses.10. The applicant falling under the Persons with Disabilities (PWD) category will be given priority and can avail 50% loan subsidy.11. The Project cost will include Capital Expenditure and three months working capital requirements for the venture depending upon the project. 12. The Cost of the land should not be included in the Project cost. The cost of the ready-built, as well as long lease or rental Work shed/ Workshop/ Shop, can be included in the project cost subject to restricting such cost of ready-built as well as long lease or rental Work shed/ workshop for a maximum period of 2 years only. Eligibility of the Financial Institution: The eligible Financial Institutions for extending loans under the Scheme shall be all Nationalized Banks, Private Sector Banks, State Cooperative Banks, and State Bank of SikkimExclusionsA person who has already availed of subsidy under CMSS/ PMEGP shall not be eligible under the scheme. Application ProcessOfflineStep 01: The applicant shall submit their applications in the prescribed format as provided in Annexure-I of the scheme guidelines; in hard copies along with the Detailed Project Report and the Mandatory Documents addressed to: General Manager, DIC (E/N)/(S/W), Govt. of Sikkim, Gangtok/Jorethang. Step 02: The District Industries Center shall receive the application along with the requisite documents, and issue an acknowledgment in the prescribed format as provided in Annexure-II, duly indicating the Application ID. Step 03: The Selection Committee will examine the project for in-principal approval, and forward the list to Headquarters for information. Step 04: The committee headed by the Secretary of the Commerce & Industries Department shall advise the Selection Committee regarding the sanctioning of the back-end subsidy. Step 05: Upon sanction and disbursement of the project, the admissible financial assistance of either 50% or 35% of the approved bankable project cost in the form of back ended subsidy will be provided by the Government through the Commerce & Industries Department to the concerned public sector Banks/ PSU / Financial Institutions. Repayment of Loan:Repayment of the loan amount along with interest obtained from the bank shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant as per the terms and conditions of the bank. If the beneficiary wants to close the loan account before the completion of the loan period, he can do so with the approval of the Commerce & Industries Department. If the beneficiary wants to close after one year, they are free to do for agriculture & allied activities, and for other projects, the lock-in is 3 years. NOTE: Exaggeration in the cost of the project with a view only to availing a higher amount of subsidy shall not be considered for approval by the Committee. Documents RequiredTwo Recent Passport Size Photographs. Attested Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification / Residential Certificate for Urban AreasAttested Copy of Mark Sheet and Certificate Issued by Board.Attested Copy of Birth Certificate/ Certified by the Local PanchayatTwo Sets of Proposals with Project Reports Prepared and Certified by the Concerned Line Department.Copy of Electoral Voter Card as Address Proof. Copy of Valid Unemployment Card Issued by Respective BAC.Land Parcha & Land Lease Agreement, if necessary in the project.Relevant Permits / License at the Time of Sanction of Bank Loan.BPL Certificate from DESME.Income Certificate issued by the Concerned BDO / SDM Office.NOC from SABCO / SIDICO.PwD Certificate from the Social Welfare Department of Sikkim.Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat is the amount of subsidy provided through SYSS?Beneficiaries intending to become self employed by setting up Manufacturing/Service/Business/Cooperative/Agriculture & allied activities are entitled to back ended subsidy assistance from the State Government @ 50% for BPL and @ 35% for rest on financially viable/ bankable Projects cost.What are the sectors for which one can avail the loan?Animal Husbandry, Agriculture & Allied activities-Dairy, Poultry and Piggery, Organic Farming - Green house, Food Processing and other manufacturing sectors, Wood Handicraft & Cottage Industries, Metal Fabrication works, Tourism -Paragliding, Mountain cycling, etc., Rural Homestays, IT & IT enabled services, Cutting and tailoring for Cooperative registered societies, Bakery and Restaurants, Beauty Parlours/Boutique/Grocery/Manihari & other Retail shops, Coaching Institute/Training Centre, Herbal Products Industry including Nurseries, Paper bags/Paper plates, Bamboo based Industry (Cane & Bamboo), Automobile Workshop Garage/Car spa, Diagnostic Centres, Film Industry/Film Auditorium (Mini size) excluding construction, and any Other Project which the Committee deems to be fit for funding.Can a person from rural areas avail the benefits of this scheme?The scheme is applicable to all areas in the State including rural and urban areas.How does repayment of loan mechanism work under this scheme?Repayment of loan amount along with interest obtained from the bank shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant as per the terms and conditions of the bank. If the beneficiary wants to close the loan account before the completion of the loan period, he can do so with the approval of the Commerce & Industries Department. If the beneficiary wants to close after one year, they are free to do for agriculture & allied activities and for others project the lock in is 3 years.What is the contribution of the beneficiary towards the project cost?Contribution of the beneficiary shall be 5 to15% of the sanctioned project cost depending upon the banker's norms.Who can apply for SYSS?All the educated unemployed youth having COI, Sikkim subject certificate with at least class 5 pass certificate / Technical certificate for technical / manufacturing projects can apply. What is the maximum criteria for annual income to avail this scheme?The family income shall not exceed 8 lakhs per annum.Is cost of land included in the Project cost?No, cost of the land should not be included in the Project cost.Can more than one family member avail the benefits of this scheme?Only one member of a family shall be eligible to avail the benefits under the Scheme.Is the application form submitted online?The applicant can submit their applications in prescribed format as provided in Annexure-I in hard copies along with the Detailed Project Report and other relevant documents addressed to the General Manager, DIC (E/N)/(S/W) at Gangtok and Jorethang respectively.Where can I get the Application form?The application forms can be downloaded from the following link: Youth-Skilled-Start-Up-Scheme-converted.pdf (sikkim.gov.in)Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesBrochureOkWas this helpful? News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In SikkimSkilled Youth Startup SchemeBusinessEmploymentEntrepreneurshipStartUpYouthDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe "Skilled Youth Start-Up Scheme (SYSS)" was launched with effect on 15th August 2020 by the Commerce & Industries Department of the Government of Sikkim, with the vision to reduce unemployment and create adequate self- employment opportunities in the long run. SYSS is intended to generate equitable entrepreneurial opportunities in rural as well as urban areas of Sikkim, particularly among the educated unemployed youth to become self-employed by setting up Manufacturing / Service / Business / Co-Operative / Agriculture & Allied Activities by availing loans (category wise) with back ended subsidy assistance from the State Government @ 50% for Below Poverty Line (BPL) and @ 35% for rest on financially viable/ bankable Projects cost. Objectives:1. To promote entrepreneurial qualities amongst the local unemployed youth and encourage them for setting up any commercially viable/ bankable business venture in any sector including Agriculture / Horticulture / Food Processing / Animal Husbandry / Handloom & Handicrafts / Retail / Tourism / Services / Manufacturing etc. in the State in tune with the State Government policies. 2. To generate equitable entrepreneurial opportunities in rural as well as urban areas of the State through the setting up of new self- employment ventures/projects by providing one-time non-refundable financial assistance of 50% / 35% with back-ended subsidy on project approval by the Bank/ PSU financial institution. The scheme will be implemented by the Department of Commerce & Industries, Govt. of Sikkim, through the District Industries Centres (DICs) for appraisal of the projects, their financial viability and providing assistance for their credit linkage with the financial institutions and line Departments.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1