MeitY - Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme For Electronics & IT OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of Electronics and Information TechnologyMeitY - Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme For Electronics & ITFellowshipPhDDetailsA scholarship scheme by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology with an objective to enhance the number of PhDs in Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) and IT/IT Enabled Services (IT/ITES) sectors in the country. Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the scheme in 2014 for a period of nine years with a total estimated cost of 466 crores. The duration of the scheme is five years for the purpose of selecting candidates for support under the scheme. However, the funding would be continued till the 9th year for the commitments already made during the scheme period. Objectives:To enhance the number of PhDs in Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) and IT/IT Enabled Services (IT/ITES) sectors in the country.Give thrust to R&D, create an innovative ecosystem and enhance India s competitiveness in these knowledge-intensive sectors.To fulfill the commitments made in National Policy on Electronics (NPE 2012) and National Policy on Information Technology (NPIT 2012) which recommend giving special thrust on significantly increasing the number of PhDs in the country to enable India to compete globally in the coming decades, to develop an ecosystem of research, development and IP creation in these knowledge-intensive sectors.To Support 1500 Ph.D. Candidates including both Full-Time (500) and Part-Time (1000) in each of the ESDM and IT/ITES sectors (Total: 3000 PhDs).The scheme is also expected to encourage working professionals and non-PhD faculty members to pursue Ph.D. Salient features of the Ph.D. scheme are as follows:This Scheme provides 25% more fellowship amount than most of the other Ph.D. Schemes.The scheme also provides an infrastructural grant of 5,00,000/- per candidate to the academic institutions for the creation/ up-gradation of laboratories.Part-time Ph.D. candidates get a one-time incentive on completion of the Ph.D.The scheme also supports 200 Young Faculty Research Fellowships in the areas of ESDM and IT/ITES with the objective to retain and attract bright young faculty members in these sectors.BenefitsFull-Time Ph.D. CandidatesFellowship: 31,500/- per month (I & II years); 35,000/-(III to V year); revised to 38,750/- per month (I & II years); 43,750/-(III to V year).Annual Contingency Grant support of 30,000/- per year. Following items may be booked under 'Annual Contingency grant/support" meant for a full-time Ph.D. candidate- Books/Documents of relevance to the research topic; Equipment/software exclusively for research; Consumables/Chemical/Electronic components for research work; ReprintlOff-Prints of research papers, reports, etc; Registration fee for attending Symposia/Seminars/Conferences in India/abroad provided the Ph.D. candidate is presenting a paper that has been accepted; Similar items of relevance / directly contributing towards the furtherance of the candidate's research work for his Ph.D., etc.Reimbursement of Rent for those Full-Time PhD candidates who are not provided accommodation or choose not to avail of the accommodation provided by the institution.The ceiling for Reimbursement of Rent would be 30%, 20%, and 10% of the fellowship amount as per the Government of India norms for class X, Y, or Z cities respectively.Support for attending international conferences (Supports for 1000 conferences with an amount up to 50,000/- per conference). Any individual Full-Time Ph.D. candidate would be eligible to avail of the support for attending a maximum of 2 conferences under this scheme. Part-Time Ph.D. CandidatesA one-time incentive of 2,50,000/- would be provided to Part-Time Ph.D. candidates on successful completion of the Ph.D. Young Faculty Research Fellowship(YFRF)Financial support provided to the YFRFs is as mentioned below:Fellowship @ 20,000/- per month in addition to the regular incomeContingency/ Research Grant of 5,00,000/- per annum for presenting paper and research work at national and international conferences and other research expenses for a maximum of five years. 1) Equipment, manpower, and other similar expenses of relevance to support the research work of the Young Faculty Research Fellow (YFRF) could be met from the Research/ Contingency Grant of Rs. 5 Lakhs/year. 2) The research contingency grant of Rs. 5 Lakh/year may also be utilized by the YFRF awardee towards attending the International Conference by the researchers working under his/her guidance for presenting a paper in which the researcher (working with the YFRF awardee) is a co-author with him/her (the YFRF awardee) and the YFRF awardee he/her self is not attending the same event. The above clarification is to facilitate the use of the Grant rather than to limit the wisdom/freedom of the Young Faculty Research Fellow i.r.o. the use of the grant for the furtherance of the research work. 3) The unspent balance in a particular year under Research Contingency grant/support" for each YFRF may be carried forward to the next year, till the time the YFRF is supported under the scheme at the Institute. Eligibility[The Eligibility Criteria for this scheme vary with the institute] Eligibility Criteria for the ApplicantMinimum Grade Point Average of 6.5/10 or 60% (55% marks for SC/ST) of marks in M.E./M.Tech/M.S. in Electronics/Communications/ComputerScience/Instrumentation/Biomedical/Mechanical/Microelectronics/Solid-state Technology/MEMS/Nano Science/Nano Technology/Material Science/Engineering Physics or equivalent.ORMinimum Grade Point Average of 6.5/10 or 60% (55% marks for SC/ST) of marks in Bachelor degree in Electronics/Communications/Computer Science/Instrumentation/Biomedical/Mechanical Engineering or equivalent with a valid GATE score.ORBachelor's degree in Electronics/Communications/Computer Science/Instrumentation/Biomedical/Mechanical or equivalent from an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) with a minimum CGPA of 8.0ORFirst Class (6.5 grades point out of 10) or 60% marks (55% marks for SC/ST) in Masters or equivalent degree in Physics/Chemistry or relevant Science subject/B. Tech. in engineering physics with a valid GATE score or UGC/CSIR-NET or an equivalent qualification. Eligibility Criteria for the InstituteThe minimum requirement for the Institutions/Universities, Research Centers, etc. for being eligible to receive grants under the scheme is compliance with the UGC s minimum standards and procedures for the award of M.Phil./Ph.D. Degree, Regulation, 2009 (ref. The Gazette of India July 11, 2009, Part III sec 4) as amended time to time. All institutions falling in the following seven categories are eligible to participate in the scheme and receive grants:Indian Institutes of Technologies (IITs)National Institutes of Technologies (NITs)Indian Institute of Science (IISc)Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs)Central UniversitiesDeemed Universities under Central GovernmentColleges/Institutions of National Importance Institutions falling into the following six categories also are eligible to participate in the scheme - Universities created under a Provincial Act/State ActState UniversitiesPrivate UniversitiesPrivate Deemed to be UniversitiesColleges that are allowed to offer PhDsOther academic and R&D institutions subject to meeting the additional eligibility criteria as mentioned below - The Institution should have an existing postgraduate stream in ESDM/IT/ITES and have produced PhDs in these areas for the last 3 years. The Ph.D. student(s) under this scheme to be admitted as per UGC admission norms.The Institution should be recognized by AICTE and NBA (National Board of Accreditation) accredited with respect to ESDM & IT/ITES Programmes. OR The Institution should be accredited by NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council of UGC).Such an institution would be required to furnish a copy of documents in support of meeting the above-mentioned eligibility criteria for the Ph.D. Cell, MeitY. Application ProcessOnline[the application process varies with the institute] Step 1:The applicant should take print of the application form hosted on the institute's website.Step 2:The applicant should duly fill the mandatory fields of the application form, attach the required self-attested documents, and email the same to the Nodal Officer of the institute with the subject line Visvesvaraya Application of [Your Name] . NOTE 1: Please note that the candidate must bring the original reference letter in a sealed envelope if he/she is called for an interview.NOTE 2: Original transcripts would have to be produced during admission for verification.NOTE 3: The reference letters should have the subject Reference letter for [Your Name] . Documents RequiredDate of Birth (DOB) Certificate or High School (Class 10th) Certificate with DOBSC/ST/OBC(NCL) Certificate, if applicableCertificate of Physical Disability, if applicableSponsorship certificate for sponsored candidates, if applicableA valid GATE/CSIR/UGC score card (Computer generated printout is also accepted)Copies of mark/grade sheets of qualifying degree or higherNo Objection Certificate from employer (only for part-time/external) (Item 12). Full-time students currently working must produce NOC or Relieving Certificate from the employer at the time of admission.Two letters of reference (for Ph.D. applicants only)Frequently Asked QuestionsWhat are the seven categories of institutions who Are Eligible To Participate In The Scheme And Receive Grants?All institutions falling in the following seven categories are eligible to participate in the scheme and receive grants: Indian Institutes of Technologies (IITs) National Institutes of Technologies (NITs) Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs) Central Universities Deemed Universities under Central Government Colleges/Institutions of National ImportanceWhat are the number of slots per institute for the Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF)?As per guidelines of the scheme for Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF), each institute supported under the scheme is eligible for an award of 01 YFRF for each 05 Full-Time Ph.D. candidates, enrolled under the scheme.What is the amount of the fellowship Provided To The YFRFs?Fellowship @ 20,000/- per month in addition to the regular incomeWhat is the Institutional Overhead for a Full-Time Ph.D. Candidate?The scheme provides an Institutional Overhead of 25,000/- per year per Full-Time Ph.D. candidate for a maximum of five years to the academic institutions.Is Direct Funding Support Provided To The Ph.D. Candidates under this scheme?The support under the scheme will be provided to the institution granting the Ph.D. degree and no direct funding support will be provided by the Government of India to the Ph.D. candidates or faculty members or to the departments in the supported institution. Sources And ReferencesGuidelinesList Of Institutions Supported Under The SchemeList Of Conferences Supported Under The SchemeKey Research AreasContact DetailsFormat For Letter Of Reference (IIT Kanpur)OkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry of Electronics and Information TechnologyMeitY - Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme For Electronics & ITFellowshipPhDDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsA scholarship scheme by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology with an objective to enhance the number of PhDs in Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) and IT/IT Enabled Services (IT/ITES) sectors in the country. Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the scheme in 2014 for a period of nine years with a total estimated cost of 466 crores. The duration of the scheme is five years for the purpose of selecting candidates for support under the scheme. However, the funding would be continued till the 9th year for the commitments already made during the scheme period. Objectives:To enhance the number of PhDs in Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) and IT/IT Enabled Services (IT/ITES) sectors in the country.Give thrust to R&D, create an innovative ecosystem and enhance India s competitiveness in these knowledge-intensive sectors.To fulfill the commitments made in National Policy on Electronics (NPE 2012) and National Policy on Information Technology (NPIT 2012) which recommend giving special thrust on significantly increasing the number of PhDs in the country to enable India to compete globally in the coming decades, to develop an ecosystem of research, development and IP creation in these knowledge-intensive sectors.To Support 1500 Ph.D. Candidates including both Full-Time (500) and Part-Time (1000) in each of the ESDM and IT/ITES sectors (Total: 3000 PhDs).The scheme is also expected to encourage working professionals and non-PhD faculty members to pursue Ph.D. Salient features of the Ph.D. scheme are as follows:This Scheme provides 25% more fellowship amount than most of the other Ph.D. Schemes.The scheme also provides an infrastructural grant of 5,00,000/- per candidate to the academic institutions for the creation/ up-gradation of laboratories.Part-time Ph.D. candidates get a one-time incentive on completion of the Ph.D.The scheme also supports 200 Young Faculty Research Fellowships in the areas of ESDM and IT/ITES with the objective to retain and attract bright young faculty members in these sectors.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1