WISE Post-Doctoral Fellowship OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologyWISE Post-Doctoral FellowshipFellowshipKIRANPost- DoctoralResearchWISEWomanDetailsThe Department of Science and Technology (DST) is implementing a dedicated umbrella scheme "Women in Science and Engineering-KIRAN (WISE-KIRAN)" with the aim to support women from all walks of life in the domain of Science & Technology. The Department has re-structured one of the flagship programme "Women Scientists Scheme" and come up with a new programme "WISE Post-Doctoral Fellowship (WISE-PDF)" that aims to provide opportunities to women scientists and technologists between the age group of 27-60 years who want to continue the research as bench-level scientists in basic and applied sciences.Scientific Disciplines:(1) Physical & Mathematical Sciences [PM](2) Chemical Sciences [CS](3) Life Sciences [LS](4) Earth & Atmospheric Sciences [EA](5) Engineering & Technology [ET]Project Duration:The maximum duration of the project is 3 years.BenefitsThe fellowship amount under this programme is @ 55,000/- per month with House Rent Allowances as per DST norms.This Programme also provides a Research Grant of 2.0 Lakhs per year and the cost of small equipment (up to a maximum of 3.0 Lakhs) along with Institutional overhead charges.EligibilityEmployment:Candidates in regular employment are not eligible for WISE-PDF. However, women scientists who are temporarily employed in research or academics may apply for the scheme but they have to leave their earlier assignment if the WISE-PDF project is approved. The position of research staff in any project, Post-Doctoral Fellow, Research Associate, etc. will be considered a temporary assignment.Age:The minimum age to apply is 27 years and the maximum is 60 years. Women scientists, less than 27 years of age are NOT eligible.Educational Qualification:Women Scientists having a Ph.D. in Basic/ Applied Science or an equivalent degree like MD, MS, MDS, etc. are eligible for WISE-PDF.Break in Career:Break in career is not mandatory to apply for WISE-PDF, however, women who have a break are also encouraged to apply for this programme.Application ProcessOnlineStep 01: The proposals should be submitted at the DST-WISE portal https://onlinewosa.gov.in/ . The portal is open throughout the year.Step 02: First of all, aspirants need to register themselves at the online portal with their active e-mail ID to apply to WISE-PDF.Step 03: An auto-generated email will be sent to the applicant with an ID and link to create a password.Step 04: After successfully registration, the applicant may login at the 'portal and fill in the application form of the Project Proposal under WISE-PDF.Step 05: Before submission, the applicant may preview her full proposal to make sure that everything is correct and in order. The proposal can be edited at this stage but after submission, any editing will not be possible.Step 06: Once the applicant finds the proposal is in order, click the "Final Submit" button for the final submission of the proposal.Step 07: The proposal can be seen after login. It can also be printed and saved in the system for your ready reference.Note 01: There are different Project Proposal Documents (PPDs) that include files to be submitted online as well as to be uploaded.Note 02: The file size should not exceed 2MB in any case.Note 03: It would be useful to first prepare uploading files which enable the applicant to submit a proposal in a smooth and time-bound manner.Note 04: The formats of all the PPDs are available on the home page of the portal under Formats for ready reference of the applicants.Note 05: Hard copy of the proposal: There is no need to submit a hard copy of the proposal to DST.Documents Required1. Project Proposal Document (Format)2. Biodata of PI (Signed) (Format)3. Mentor s Biodata (Signed) (Format)4. Caste Certificate (If applicable)5. Disability Certificate (If Applicable)6. Proof of age (Birth Certificate,10th Class certificate)7. Photograph of PI8. Signature of PI9. Highest Degree certificate10. House Rent Allowance (if eligible) (Format)Note: The formats of all the PPDs are available on the home page of the portal under Formats for ready reference of the applicants.Frequently Asked QuestionsIs WOS-A programme is still open for proposal submission?No. WOS-A programme is now re- structured and re-designed in to 2 separate programmes for Ph.D. and non-Ph.D. women candidates viz. WISE Post-Doctoral Fellowship (WISE-PDF) and WISE Fellowship for Ph.D. (WISE-PhD).How WISE-PDF programme is different from WOS-A programme?The WISE-PDF programme is exclusively cater women scientists who want to pursue Post-Doctoral research in the area of basic and applied sciences, however, WOS-A programme was catering both Ph.D and non-Ph.D category of women scientists. Further, break in career was mandatory in WOS-A programme which is not a mandatory condition for WISE-PDF.What is the minimum qualification for applying under WISE-PDF?Ph.D. or equivalent degree.What is the age limit for WISE-PDF?27 to 60 years.Is employed Women Scientists are eligible to apply in WISE-PDF programme?Women Scientists other than permanent/regular positions are eligible for WOS-A including unemployed.Is break in career mandatory to apply in WISE-PDF?Now break in career is not mandatory to apply in WISE-PDF. However, women scientists who had break in their scientific career are still encouraged to apply in WISE-PDF. What are the subject areas where support is available under WISE-PDF programme?WISE-PDF programme supports projects in 5 subject areas of basic and applied sciences namely; Physical and Mathematical Sciences (PM), Chemical Sciences (CS), Life Sciences (LS), Earth & Atmospheric Sciences (EA) and Engineering & Technology (ET).What is the tenure of project under WISE-PDF?Three (3) years maximum.What are the official formalities during the time of submission of proposal under WOS-A scheme?There are no as such official formalities at the time of proposal submission. However, duly signed bio-data of mentor with latest publications is to be uploaded.Can host institution be the same from where Ph.D. degree has been obtained?Yes.Is Ph.D guide can be mentor of WISE-PDF project?YesIs it possible to have more than one mentor for WISE-PDF project?No.Can a close relative act as mentor?No.When the call is open in WISE-PDF?The programme is open throughout the year.Can I change the proposal after final submission?No. Can I change my email ID after registration?No. Which are the special characters to be avoided while filling the application?Please avoid using special characters like bullets, tabs, single quotes, double quotes, angular brackets, ampersands etc. while entering the data. How to start online submission of proposal?Please go through the website online-wosa.gov.in and click on WISE-PDF button then it will be redirect to the WISE-PDF portal, read instructions carefully and proceed further accordingly. Which internet browser supports WISE-PDF web portal?You may use all latest browsers like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer 9 etc. I forget my User Id or Password or Password is locked?Click on "Forgot Password" button. You will receive an email that will contain a link to recreate the Password. Can I change my e-mail in between the processing?No. Your registered email ID is the login ID and only way of communication via portal, therefore, no change is allowed. Any special instructions while filling proposal?Please try to fill all columns that are displayed, even if they seem to be non-mandatory. Please avoid using special characters like bullets, tabs, single quotes, double quotes, angular brackets, ampersand etc. while entering the data.How much time the link receives the mail for the creation of Password is valid?The link is valid for 24 hours only. If this link does not work, you can click on Forgot Password Link available at the Home page of online-wosa.gov.in to get the email again.If I have problem in submitting the application whom should I contact?Email the specific problem at support-wosa@nic.in.If I have any queries related to WOS-A Scheme whom should I contact?Email your queries at vandana.singh@nic.inSources And ReferencesGuidelinesOfficial WebsiteIndia ST&I WebsiteOkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Ministry Of Science And TechnologyWISE Post-Doctoral FellowshipFellowshipKIRANPost- DoctoralResearchWISEWomanDetailsBenefitsEligibilityApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsThe Department of Science and Technology (DST) is implementing a dedicated umbrella scheme "Women in Science and Engineering- KIRAN (WISE-KIRAN)" with the aim to support women from all walks of life in the domain of Science & Technology. The Department has re-structured one of the flagship programme "Women Scientists Scheme" and come up with a new programme "WISE Post-Doctoral Fellowship (WISE-PDF)" that aims to provide opportunities to women scientists and technologists between the age group of 27-60 years who want to continue the research as bench-level scientists in basic and applied sciences.Scientific Disciplines:(1) Physical & Mathematical Sciences [PM](2) Chemical Sciences [CS](3) Life Sciences [LS](4) Earth & Atmospheric Sciences [EA](5) Engineering & Technology [ET]Project Duration:The maximum duration of the project is 3 years.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1