YSR Rythu Bharosa Sign InBackDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsSources And ReferencesFeedback OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Andhra PradeshYSR Rythu BharosaAgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistanceDetailsIntroductionLaunched in June 2019, the scheme "YSR RYTHU BHAROSA is one of the nine navratna welfare schemes. It is being implemented by the Dept. of Agriculture, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh since 15th October 2019. The scheme provides financial assistance to the farmer families including tenant farmers across the state @ 13,500/- per farmer family per year. 49 lakh farmer families will be benefitted from this scheme. The government has given a total budget of 6,534 crores for the Rythu Bharosa Scheme. ObjectiveThe objective of the scheme is to support the cultivators in meeting the investment during the crop season with a view to enabling them to timely sourcing of quality inputs and services for higher crop productivity. The scheme is augmenting the income of Land owner farmer families and the SC, ST, BC, and Minority Landless Tenant farmer families by providing financial assistance across the State of Andhra Pradesh.Benefits1. The Landholder farmer families who collectively own cultivable land irrespective of the size of land holdings will be provided a benefit of 13,500/- per annum. Of this, 7,500 will be provided by the state government and 6,000 will be provided by the central government under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. The existing validated land ownership database will be used for the identification of beneficiaries under this category of the Scheme. 2. The benefit of 13,500/- will be extended to the eligible land owner farmer in 3 installments as detailed below - 1st instalment @ 7,500/- during the month of May (including 2,000/- from PM-KISAN) 2nd instalment @ 4,000/- during the month of October (including 2,000/- from PM-KISAN) 3rd instalment @ 2,000/- during the month of January (Exclusively of PM-KISAN scheme) 3. Financial assistance will also be provided to landless cultivators belonging to Schedule Caste (SC), Schedule Tribe (ST), Backward Class (BC), and Minority categories in the State @ 13,500/- per year from the Budget allocation of the Government of Andhra Pradesh. 4. For Landless Tenant farmers including ROFR Cultivators, the benefit of Rs.13,500/- will be extended in 3 instalments from the State Government budget as detailed below - 1st instalment @ 7,500/- during the month of May2nd instalment @ 4,000/- during the month of October3rd instalment @ 2,000/- during the month of January 5. The government will pay crop insurance premiums on behalf of farmers.6. Interest-free Crop loans to be provided to farmers.Free bore wells are to be provided to farmers.7. Nine hours of free electricity during day time for agricultural purposes.8. Aquaculture farmers to get electricity @ 1.50 per unit.9. 3000 crores corpus fund allotted to price stabilization. Rates are to be declared before crop sowing. Farmers are to be assured Minimum support price.10. 4000 crores allotted for the Natural disaster Relief fund.11. Every constituency is to be provided with cold storage, and go-downs. Food processing units are to be established where necessary.12. The cooperative sector will be revived during the first year. Every dairy farmer who participates in a cooperative dairy from the second year onwards gets an 4 bonus per liter.13. Toll Tax and Road Tax to be waived off for Agriculture Tractors.14. 7,00,000 YSR Bima to be provided to the family of the farmer for accidental death or suicide. An act will be passed in the assembly to ensure the amount does not land into the hands of the loaner and the government will stand by the deceased farmer's family. Methodology for calculation of benefit (Land Owner Farmer Families): The Department of Real Time Governance takes the landholder families as per Webland data of the Revenue department, as it is the authorized data for the land ownership system in the Government of Andhra Pradesh. Purification and Rectification of errors in wetland data will be taken up by the Revenue Department in coordination with the Agriculture Department. Joint Verification and confirmation will be done by the Multipurpose Extension Officers (Village Agriculture Assistants)/Agricultural Extension Officers a.nd Village Revenue Officers at the Village level, which in turn will be monitored by the Mandal Agricultural Officer and Tahsildars at Mandal Level, by Sub Divisional Assistant Director of Agriculture and Revenue Divisional Officers at Divisional Level, and final confirmation will be done by the District Collector assisted by JDA, prior to uploading of data to RTGS. 5% random verification at the mandal level and 2% verification at the Divisional level to be taken up on the verification process. One Deputy Collector rank Officer has to be designated for the Supervision of the entire process for each Assembly Constituency. Department of RTGS shall play the role of System Integrator (SI) in integrating different data sources viz., wetland, Households (families) data from Praja Sadhikara Survey, CFMS for data relating to Government employees, Pensioners, Income tax, etc as per exclusion parameters.EligibilityEligibility of Land Owner Farmer Families: The benefit of the scheme shall be provided to all the landholder farmer families who collectively own cultivable land irrespective of the size of land holdings @ 13,500/- per annum per family per annum as per land records, subject to exclusions. Farmer families Cultivating under ROFR lands and D Patta Lands ( which are duly incorporated in the relevant records) are also eligible for benefit under YSR Rythu Bharosa. Farmers cultivating Acquired Lands for which compensation was not paid are eligible for benefits under the scheme. In case of joint holding the benefit will be transferred to the bank account of the person within the family with the highest quantum of landholding. If the quantum of cultivable land owned by two or more individual family members is the same, the benefit will be transferred to the bank account of the elder/eldest, as the case may be, of such members of that farmer family. Eligibility of Land-Less Cultivators: The tenant farmer/family member shall not have any Agriculture/Horticulture/ Sericulture Land of his own. Support will not be extended for lease agreements within the family. Minimum Area to be taken for lease by a single individual Landless tenant is as follows.Crop: All Agriculture, Horticulture, and Sericulture CropsMinimum Economical Lease Extent (acres): 1.0 Acre (0.4 Ha)Crop: Vegetables, Flowers, and Fodder cropsMinimum Economical Lease Extent (acres): 0.5 Acre (0.2 Ha)Crop: Betel VineMinimum Economical Lease Extent (acres): 0.1 Acre (0.04 Ha) Irrespective of the size of the Holding, the benefit will be extended to only one cultivator per Land Owner family between whom there will be a lease agreement. Only One Tenant/Cultivator belonging to SC, ST, BC, and Minority Category will get benefits along with Land Owner Farmers. In the case of multiple tenants to a single land owner, preference is given to the ST tenant for providing financial benefits followed by SC, BC, and Minority tenants in the order of preference as per the existence of such categories. In Tribal areas, as per the Statute, only Tribal Cultivators/ tenants are recognized. A Land Less Tenant/Cultivator having multiple lease agreements is eligible to get benefits as a single unit. The lease agreement entered between the Landless Tenant/Cultivator and a Marginal Farmer who is residing in the same village will not be entertained. Cultivators/ Tenants cultivating the lands of Owners of excluded categories are eligible for the benefit under Rythu Bharosa. Tenants cultivating Inam lands/ Endowment lands will be extended benefits as per the recorded evidence available with the Department of Endowments. Identification of Landless Tenant Farmers: Creating mass awareness on "Crop Cultivator Rights Act 2019". Organization of Grama Sabhas at the village level for identification of the Landless Cultivators/Tenants with the involvement of field functionaries of Revenue, Agriculture, Village Volunteers, and Village Elders of the particular village. In this connection, necessary ground truthing shall be done by conducting field verification and reasonable enquiry to establish a cultivation claim. of the landless cultivators/ tenants. Sensitizing the land owners about:a) Security of the land ownership right.b) No possibility of suit/prosecution/other legal proceedings on the agreement.c) Repealing of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Tenancy Act, 1.956.d) Bank obligation for recovery of loan is on crop only but riot on the land. Execution of Crop Cultivator Rights Cards (CCRCs) at Village Secretariats. Preparation of the list of owners and Landless Tenants who sign on the Crop Cultivator Rights Card. Preparation of the village-wise list of SC, ST, BC, and Minority Landless Cultivators / Tenant farmers along with their Aadhar No, Ration Card, and Bank Account Details, etc. Displaying the lists in the respective Gram Panchayats for inviting claims and objections. Communicating the consolidated lists duly approved by the District Collector to RTGS for validation and release of benefits.ExclusionsThe following categories of beneficiaries of higher economic status shall not be eligible for benefits under the scheme: 1. All Institutional Land holders; and 2. Farmers and their family members who are holding the constituency post as (Ex) & Present Ministers, MPs, MLAs & MLCs. 3. All superannuated/retired pensioners whose monthly pension is Rs.10,000/- or more(Excluding Multi Tasking Staff / Class IV/Group D employees) of the above category. 4. All Persons who paid Income Tax in the last assessment year Professionals like Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, Chartered Accountants, and Architects registered with Professional bodies and carry out their profession by undertaking practices. 5. Persons owning farmlands converted into House sites, Aquaculture, or any other non-agriculture usage either updated or not updated in the Revenue Records. Necessary ground truthing shall be done by village-level functionaries of the Revenue and Agriculture Depts. 6. Persons paid Commercial Tax/ Professional Tax/ GST during the last assessment year. 7. If any unmarried child of a farmer is a Government employee or income tax assessed, that will not make the farmer ineligible under this scheme provided he or she does not come under any of the exclusion categories. 8. In case of death cases, the financial benefit will be provided to the spouse of the deceased person. However, from the next year onwards the financial assistance will go to the legal heir, as per the mutations done in the web land. Application ProcessOnline1. The selection of the candidate will be done by the newly selected village volunteers.2. The information will collect by them and sent to the revenue officials.3. The officials will then prepare a list of beneficiaries.4. This list will be submitted to the government. 5. Finally, the district- wise beneficiary list will start to show on the official website. To check if your name is on the list, Step 1: Visit: https://ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in/RBApp/index.html Step 2: Log in using your e-Karshak username and password. The beneficiary list will be displayed on the page.Step 3: Enter your "Katha Number" in the search box. The details will be displayed such as name, father's name, the Katha number, village name, district name, Mandal name, etc.Documents RequiredAadhaar NumberProof of ResidenceDomicile CertificateCaste Certificate (if applicable)Ration CardIncome Certificate / Proof of IncomeProof of Agricultural Land (if applicable)Bank Account DetailsFrequently Asked QuestionsWhen Was The YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Launched?The scheme "YSR Rythu Bharosa" was launched in June 2019.Since When Is The Scheme Being Implemented?The scheme is being implemented by the Dept. of Agriculture, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh since 15th October 2019.Which Are The Nine Navratna Welfare Schemes?1. YSR Raithu Bharosa 2. Fee reimbursement, Youth Employment & Job Creation 3. Arogyasri 4. YSR Jalayagnam 5. Ban on Alcohol 6. Amma Vodi 7. YSR Asara, YSR Cheyuta 8. Housing for all poor 9. Pensions Enhancement To know more about these schemes, please visit: https://krishna.ap.gov.in/scheme/navaratnalu/What Are The Objectives Of The "YSR Rythu Bharosa" Scheme? The objective of the scheme is to support the cultivators in meeting the investment during the crop season with a view to enabling them to timely sourcing of quality inputs and services for higher crop productivity. The scheme is augmenting the income of Land owner farmer families and the SC, ST, BC, and Minority Landless Tenant farmer families by providing financial assistance across the State of Andhra Pradesh.What Benefits Are Offered Under "YSR Bima"?Under YSR Bima, Rs 7 Lakh is provided to the family of a farmer for accidental death or suicide. The act will be passed in the assembly to ensure the amount does not land in the hands of the loaner and the government will stand by the deceased farmer family.How Will The Beneficiaries Be Identified? The existing validated land ownership database will be used for the identification of beneficiaries under this category of the Scheme.Are The Farmer Families Cultivating Under ROFR Lands Also Eligible To Apply To This Scheme?Yes, the farmer families Cultivating under ROFR lands and D Patta Lands (which are duly incorporated in the relevant records) are also eligible for benefit under YSR Rythu Bharosa.To Whose Bank Account Will The Amount Of The Scheme Benefits Be Transferred If The Quantum Of Cultivable Land Owned By Two Or More Individual Family Members Is The Same?If the quantum of cultivable land owned by two or more individual family members is the same, the benefit will be transferred to the bank account of the elder/eldest, as the case may be, of such members of that farmer family.To Whose Bank Account Will The Amount Of The Scheme Benefits Be Transferred In Case Of Joint Holding?In case of joint holding the benefit will be transferred to the bank account of the person within the family with the highest quantum of landholding.What Is The Minimum Area To Be Taken For Lease By A Single Individual Landless Tenant In Case Of Vegetables, Flowers, And Fodder Crops?For Vegetables, Flowers, and Fodder crops, the Minimum Area to be taken for lease by a single individual Landless tenant will be 0.5 Acre (0.2 Ha).What Documents Are Required In Order To Apply To This Scheme?The complete list of the required documents is given below - Passport Size Photograph Aadhaar Number Proof of Identity Proof of Residence Domicile Certificate Income Certificate / Proof of Income Proof of Agricultural Land Bank Account DetailsAt What Rate Will The Aqua Culture Farmers Be Given Electricity? Aquaculture farmers will be provided electricity @ Rs 1.50 per unit.Will There Be An Interest On The Loans To Be Provided To Farmers?Interest-free Crop loans will be provided to the farmers.Will Toll Tax And Road Tax Be Waived Off For Agriculture Tractors? Yes, there is the provision for waiving off Toll Tax and Road Tax for Agriculture Tractors.Are There Any Benefits With Respect To The Crop Insurance?Farmers need not worry about crop insurance. Government to pay crop insurance premium on behalf of farmers.For How Many Hours Will The Electricity Be Provided For Free For Agriculture Purpose?9 hours Free electricity during day time for agriculture purpose.What Is The Minimum Area To Be Taken For Lease By A Single Individual Landless Tenant In Case Of Betel Vine?For Betel Vine, the Minimum Area to be taken for lease by a single individual Landless tenant will be 0.1 Acre (0.04 Ha).Can A Lease Agreement Be Entertained If It Is Entered Between The Landless Tenant/Cultivator And A Marginal Farmer Who Is Residing In The Same Village?The lease agreement entered between the Landless Tenant/Cultivator and a Marginal Farmer who is residing in the same village will not be entertained.On What Basis Will The Tenants Cultivating Inam Lands/ Endowment Lands Be Provided The Benefits?Tenants cultivating Inam lands/ Endowment lands will be extended benefits as per the recorded evidence available with the Department of Endowments.Sources And ReferencesOperational GuidelinesOrderUser Guide - Application ProcessAmendments (26.11.2019)OkWas this helpful?News and UpdatesNo new news and updates availableShare OkYou need to before applying for schemesCancelSign In Andhra PradeshYSR Rythu BharosaAgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistanceDetailsBenefitsEligibilityExclusionsApplication ProcessDocuments RequiredFrequently Asked QuestionsIntroductionLaunched in June 2019, the scheme "YSR RYTHU BHAROSA is one of the nine navratna welfare schemes. It is being implemented by the Dept. of Agriculture, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh since 15th October 2019. The scheme provides financial assistance to the farmer families including tenant farmers across the state @ 13,500/- per farmer family per year. 49 lakh farmer families will be benefitted from this scheme. The government has given a total budget of 6,534 crores for the Rythu Bharosa Scheme. ObjectiveThe objective of the scheme is to support the cultivators in meeting the investment during the crop season with a view to enabling them to timely sourcing of quality inputs and services for higher crop productivity. The scheme is augmenting the income of Land owner farmer families and the SC, ST, BC, and Minority Landless Tenant farmer families by providing financial assistance across the State of Andhra Pradesh.OkWas this helpful?ShareNews and UpdatesNo new news and updates available 2024Powered byDigital India Corporation(DIC)Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)Government of India Quick LinksAbout UsContact UsScreen ReaderAccessibility StatementFrequently Asked QuestionsDisclaimerTerms & ConditionsUseful LinksGet in touch4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, Indiasupport- myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in(011) 24303714Last Updated On : 28/03/2024 | v-2.1.1